The Easiest Way to Learn the Tarot—EVER!!
 By
 Dusty White
Copyright 2009 by Dusty White
 All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic
 or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without
 prior written permission from the publisher or the author. Contact the publisher for information on foreign rights.
 House of White, and The Easiest Way...EVER!! series of instructional titles are trademarks of Dusty White.
 Author contact information address: Me@DustyWhite.Net
 Printed in the United States of America
 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
 Library of Congress Control Number: 2009902275
 Paperback ISBN: 978-1-41969288-8
 Book design and format by House of White
 Edited by Brenda Judy
go here> and download these free worksheets
Here’s what the readers of this book have been saying:
 “Dusty, you are amazing! This wonderful and extremely well-written book gives organize and clear
 explanations and meanings for each card including reversed cards. All areas have been covered. It
 guides you every step of the way on how to make sensible and meaningful readings, understand how
 each card relates or influences other cards, and finally create a connection pertaining to the person or
 situation in question.”
 “Dusty White defines the basic spreads and most popular ones, the card positions; how to relate these
 spreads with anything so memorization is not really too much of an issue here. He emphasizes constant
 bonding with your cards and the reason for it. The information has clarity, congruence, conciseness,
 fluidity, organization, and sense of humor. It is very encouraging, inspiring, and makes Tarot learning
 fun for me! Using this book consistently in my practice readings has allowed me to give more accurate
 readings. Most importantly, as a novice in Tarot, I am gaining invaluable experiences including the
 opportunity to help other people, which was my primary goal. I feel strongly that I will be able to gain
 significant progress through the use of your book, website, and professional advices. The work that you
 did in putting together this book is a reflection of your years of experience, love, and dedication to your
 students and readers. I am extremely happy with the knowledge that I have gained from it and I am
 absolutely recommending this to anyone who seriously wants to learn Tarot, or anyone who likes to
 read books of various interests, or anyone with an open mind.”
 “Truly awesome! Thank you so much for your love of writing, it is priceless!”
 —Bobby D.
 “As a professional psychic of 20 years I am smart enough to know to keep up with my study of the tarot,
 but never have I found such a fresh and intuitive workbook that has so greatly broadened my view and
 my connection with my cards. This extremely user friendly, and fun if I might add, guide will take even
 the novice reader to a professional level gently in a relatively short amount of time. I whole heartedly
 agree with the techniques found in these pages and preferably refer it to my own students as the guide to
 becoming great at the craft of tarot reading.”
 —Stina Garbis
 “I have purchased approximately 25 tarot books this year but after 24 hours with your book I would
 have to say NOTHING compares....you have soooo much knowledge between the front and back covers
 and you really know your stuff.....I am very happy I accidentally/incidentally fell over this on one of my
 Amazon Cruises. Thanks.”
 —Arlene Phillips
 “Your book has allowed me to start reading for others! That use to scare me! But your way of approach
 is fun and nonintimidating! Read on! can’t wait for your next, and your deck!!! Thank you Dusty
 (because your book has made my other ones dusty).”
 —Marco Zarate
“This is a book for those who want to learn to read the tarot, not just repeat standard meanings. Dusty
 White has written a wonderful book with exercises that will have you reading the tarot with your own
 voice, in a much shorter time than you can imagine. Get this book, a Rider-Waite deck (or your
 favorite), and a pen. Give it thirty days...you will find yourself amazed that you can read the tarot, not
 just recite meanings. Reading the tarot with your intuition can be taught, and Dusty White has written
 the book that can teach you.”
 —Craig R
 “Although it can be sometimes intimidating for me to interpret my own readings, I’ve noticed some of
 the simplest techniques to be VERY accurate. i.e. Three card-spreads, yes/no questions. I use it for fun
 and have actually become scared to ask certain questions because the results are eerily accurate. This
 book has made it very easy for me to learn basic spreads and increases my fascination with tarot every
 time I open it.”
 —A. Singh
 “Your book, The Easiest Way to Learn the Tarot—EVER!! has fast become a personal favorite of mine;
 it’s an instant classic and one of the most recommended books I have ever had the pleasure of sharing
 with my friends, family members, students, peers and teachers alike. It’s a phenomenal piece of work
 and a worthy addition to any library, a Tarot reader’s or not! I say this because I’ve found so much in
 your offering that is applicable outside of the realms and direct practice of interpreting the Tarot that
 I’ve now begun to implement in my daily life and regular metaphysical & spiritual practice as well.”
 “My greatest thanks and heartfelt appreciation for what I consider to be one of the most important
 books ever written about how to actually READ TAROT CARDS and work effectively with the lush
 details and rich symbolism inherent within this incredible tool, and this, in a manner that anyone can
 comprehend and put to practical “real-world” use immediately is definitely in order.”
 “Thank you so much, truly.”
 —Jerome Finley
 “This is THE BOOK that I have been searching for without the general definitions and memorizing card
 techniques that have always left me mental blocked in a reading. I have been reading the cards on and
 off for several years, but still got stuck on certain card combinations that didn’t seem to make any sense
 when put together. Your book and its visual cues techniques, give me the strategy that I feel I need to
 master the cards.”
 “Dusty, I thank you so much for your hard work and effort in writing and preparing your book. I salute
 you for a job extremely well done!... I need to do many readings on myself for sure as I am a filmmaker
 and really need insight into my craft and where I should go. Everyone tells me to read myself and see
 the best path to go on, but I always love to read other people and enjoy the joy in helping them.”
 —Len Rosen
“Dusty White has created the perfect text-book for a tarot course whether in a class-room setting or for
 self-study. I have been a professional tarot card reader for over two decades: I wish The Easiest Way to
 Learn the Tarot—EVER!! had existed when I was first learning and that is the highest praise I can offer.
 Furthermore, even now, as an extremely experienced and well-read tarotista, I still received many new
 insights, perspectives, and information from White’s wonderful book. This is a book to keep close at
 hand—it serves as a reference and a guide through the tarot as much as an instructional manual. I
 expect to return to my copy repeatedly. ”
 “The Easiest Way to Learn the Tarot—EVER!! is exceptionally well-organized, lucid, practical and
 extremely comprehensive but also tolerant: White appreciates that there are many varied and disparate
 ways to read tarot and presents readers with a wide selection. A particularly nice aspect of this book is
 that it may be used with any tarot deck although White recommends that beginners use a Waite-Smith
 or Waite-Smith derived deck—I concur—and explains precisely why. The book contains suggested
 exercises and workbook pages. Each card is discussed in depth as are a variety of spreads. This book is
 highly recommended for beginners and adepts alike. My only suggestion: perhaps Dusty White would
 like to expand this series by adding similar volumes focused on astrology and runes.”
 —Judika Illes
 Author of The Encyclopedia of 5000 Spells, The Encyclopedia of Spirits, The Weiser Field Guide to
 Witches, and Pure Magic: A Complete Course in Spellcasting.
This book is dedicated to
 My best student—EVER!!
 Christina Garbis
Table of Contents
 This book is dedicated to
 Preface
 Acknowledgments
 “Formal Introduction to the Tarot”
 Section One GETTING STARTED
 What you need to get started
 Recommended Decks for Beginners
 Tarot Journals
 What your cards mean
 Upside-down Tarot cards (“Reversals” and what to do with them)
 Tarot cards and the directions
 Five great ways to start an argument
 Easy Study Guides
 Section Two THE FASTEST WAY TO GET TO KNOW YOUR CARDS
 The fastest way to get to know your cards .
 Introduction to the basic exercises
 Exercise One - Face value
 Exercise One - Visual Examples
 Exercise “1A” - Looking beyond “face value”
 Exercise Two - “Me and you”
 Exercise Two - Visual Examples
 Exercise Three - “Exactly what do you two have in common anyway?”
 Exercise Four - From here to there
 Exercise Five - There and back again
 Exercise Five Visual Examples
 Exercise Six - Birds of a feather
 Exercise Seven Hey! - What does THIS card mean?
 The process of “opening up a card”
 “Opening up a card” Visual Examples
 Exercise Eight - One plus one equals what?
 Exercise Nine - One plus one plus one equals what?
 Exercise Ten - The never-ending story
 Exercise Eleven - Something to look at
 Okay, let’s review:
 Realy Advanced Exercises .
 Section Three SPREADS AND STUFF
 Introduction to spreads
 One-card Spreads
 Two-card Spreads
 Three-card Spreads
 Multiple-card Spreads
 Quick and Easy “Yes or No” Spreads
 Aces-up
“Up or Down Vote”
 “Gyaaa! How long wil this take?!!”
 This or That
 The Celtic Cross
 Astrological and time spreads
 Generic Astrological spread
 The Roundabout spread
 Card position meanings
 Time Spreads: Twelve-hour or “one-day” forecast
 Time Spreads: A basic one-year forecast
 Fun Things You Can do to Your Tarot Deck!
 Quick and easy “Cheat Sheets”
 Section Four THE “MINOR” ARCANA
 Introduction to the “minor” Arcana
 A sneak peek at the royal family .
 The House of Wands
 Ace of Wands (Prime Cardinal Fire)
 Two of Wands (Mutable Fire)
 Three of Wands (Fixed Fire)
 Four of Wands (Prime Fixed Fire)
 Five of Wands (Mutable Fire)
 Six of Wands (Fixed Fire)
 Seven of Wands (Fixed Fire)
 Eight of Wands (Mutable Fire)
 Nine of Wands (Fixed Fire)
 Ten of Wands (Mutable Fire)
 Page of Wands (Weak Cardinal Fire)
 Knight of Wands (Intense Mutable Fire)
 Queen of Wands (Fixed Fire)
 King of Wands (Fixed Fire)
 A sneak peek at the royal family .
 The House of Cups
 Ace of Cups (Cardinal Water)
 Two of Cups (Intense Fixed Water)
 Three of Cups (Mutable Water)
 Four of Cups (Prime Fixed Water)
 Five of Cups (Mutable Water)
 Six of Cups (Cardinal Water)
 Seven of Cups (Cardinal Water)
 Eight of Cups (Mutable Water)
 Nine of Cups (Mutable Water)
 Ten of Cups (Mutable Water)
 Page of Cups (Weak Cardinal Water)
 Knight of Cups (Fixed Water)
 Queen of Cups (Mutable Water)
 King of Cups (Cardinal Water)
A sneak peek at the royal family .
 The House of Swords
 Ace of Swords (Cardinal Air)
 Two of Swords (Fixed Air)
 Three of Swords (Cardinal Air)
 Four of Swords (Fixed Air)
 Five of Swords (Cardinal Air)
 Six of Swords (Mutable Air)
 Seven of Swords (Cardinal Air)
 Eight of Swords (Fixed Air)
 Nine of Swords (Mutable Air)
 Ten of Swords (Cardinal Air)
 Page of Swords (Weak Cardinal Air)
 Knight of Swords (Ultimate Cardinal Air)
 Queen of Swords (Fixed Air)
 King of Swords (Fixed Air)
 A sneak peek at the royal family .
 The House of Coins
 Ace of Coins (Cardinal Earth)
 Two of Coins (Mutable Earth)
 Three of Coins (Cardinal Earth)
 Four of Coins (Fixed Earth)
 Five of Coins (Mutable Earth)
 Six of Coins (Cardinal Earth)
 Seven of Coins (Mutable Earth)
 Eight of Coins (Fixed Earth)
 Nine of Coins (Fixed Earth)
 Ten of Coins (Cardinal Earth)
 Page of Coins (Weak Cardinal Earth)
 Knight of Coins (Intense Fixed Earth)
 Queen of Coins (Fixed Earth)
 King of Coins (Intense Cardinal Earth)
 Section Five THE “MAJOR” ARCANA
 Introduction to the “minor” Arcana
 The Fool
 The Magician
 The High Priestess
 The Empress
 The Emperor
 The Hierophant
 The Lovers
 The Chariot
 Strength
 The Hermit
 Wheel of Fortune
 Justice
The Hanged Man (or “Hanging Man”)
 Death
 Temperance
 The Devil
 The Tower
 The Star
 The Moon
 The Sun
 Judgement
 The World
 Section Six “OKAY, SO WHAT DO I DO NOW?...”
 “Okay, so what do I do now? .”
 Easy Study Guides (part 2)
 Appendix A:
 Troubleshooting (what do do when .)
 Appendix B:
 A Tarot F.A.Q.
 Appendix C:
 A brief history of the Tarot
 Appendix D:
 How to be a hit at parties
 Appendix E:
 Fun Party Games
 Appendix F:
 “Secret Societies” and Mystery Schools You May Want to Join
 Appendix G:
 Highly Recommended Reading
 Glossary
Preface
 The purpose of this book is to enable anyone interested in learning the Tarot to quickly
 and easily understand the concepts involved without unnecessary dogma, and to be able
 to bond with any well-designed deck for the purposes of meditation, magic, or
 divination. It is our experience that too many books rely on preaching a set meaning to
 each card that the student must adhere to before they can fully appreciate the
 complexities and meaningful interactions of each card with its neighbors. All of that
 nonsense ends here. This workbook can be used with or without the aid of a teacher, as
 the bulk of the instruction lies in the mastery of a set of basic exercises to be practiced at
 the convenience of the student. These exercises allow the student to work with their
 cards to explore meanings and interpretations in real-life scenarios they will encounter
 when they read for other people.
 Each card meaning will always be subjective to the reader, and to the situation at hand,
 and is, in turn, affected by other cards that aspect it. There is no one set meaning to any
 particular card that applies in exactly the same way each and every time that card
 appears. Life is far too complex for a set of 78 cards to provide pat answers to any
 possible situation one might encounter. This is why spreads are so popular in using the
 Tarot. Tarot spreads assign set meanings to various card positions, allowing the
 resultant card landing in that “reserved spot” to clarify the interpretation (what to
 expect in that area of existence). But a true understanding of the Tarot, and how the
 cards affect one another, magnifies the impact and understanding of each spread cast.
 This understanding comes from actual hands-on practice with Tarot cards more than it
 will ever come from a study of outdated views on science and society laid down in the
 distant past.
 If it is possible for you as the student of the Tarot to work with a qualified instructor, we
 strongly advise that you do. There is no substitute for the in-person interplay of
 teacher/student, and the process is usually a lot more fun in a small class environment.
 However, if you cannot find a qualified teacher who uses this book to guide you along,
 we encourage you to become a member of our free online community at
 www.AdvancedTarotSecrets.com and join in our ongoing discussions on the Tarot.
 Please share your thoughts about this book! Please review it on Amazon, write the
 author, or get your tarot questions answered!
Acknowledgments
 This is not important to read, but it is important to say, so please bear with us: How do
 you thank someone for a lifetime of learning—that one aspect of awareness that allows
 you complete freedom from any past insolvency, the gift that gives you wings to fly as
 high as you dare, and the ability to forge deeply into the great unknown(s) and discover
 what no one has seen before? Extra special thanks to our teachers, to whom we are
 personally indebted far beyond our own abilities to give back to society at large.
“Formal Introduction to the Tarot”
 The Tarot is a collection of visual symbols designed specifically to relate meaning and
 mystery. The images come from a time and way of life that is long since past in societal
 evolution. These images reflect certain timeless human values in a setting of primitive,
 even barbaric, political structures. Even so, it remains a highly useful “study guide” for
 personal advancement along metaphysical lines and a truly nifty tool for predicting
 future events. Simply put: The Tarot is fun, it is a bit spooky until you “learn it,” and it is
 highly misunderstood by the general public due to the mystery surrounding it. There are
 various levels of understanding the Tarot, from being able to give simple readings, to
 delving into the psychological aspects of development layered into modern decks, and
 even working with the cards in advanced magical techniques to effect positive changes
 in your life. This last part we will cover in our Advanced Tarot Secrets course.
 The Tarot, as a divination system, has evolved over the centuries as a never-ending
 parade of extremely talented artists have put their own touches on an old favorite,
 enhancing their preferred meanings and completely eliminating others. Cards that
 remain a vital force of the Tarot have seen their meanings blatantly changed by pop
metaphysical “experts,” which in itself is as valid as it is sacrilegious, flying in the face of
 traditionalism that the Tarot embraces as a source of its inherent mysterious nature. The
 Tarot has changed over time, but that does not make it any less effective. Students and
 teachers can argue endlessly on the “origins” of the Tarot or which level of symbolism is
 more integral to the “hidden meanings” of the Tarot. That is all fine in theory, but the
 sum total of all of the Tarot lessons, articles, books, courses, seminars, debates, (and
 arguments) is simply the two most important questions of all time:
 What does it mean? How does it work?
 The answer to these questions shall comprise the basis of this workbook. We will do our
 best to inform the initiate and the adept. Our opinions of the Tarot are personal and
 based on years of meticulous study and no small amount of practice. As such, we
 welcome dissenting views.
 The Tarot is one of life’s great mysteries, but it is simply a deck of cards with 78 pictures
 of some of the esoteric morals and daily experiences of life broken down into two
 sections: The 56 cards of the “minor” Arcana, which looks quite suspiciously like a
 “normal” deck of playing cards (except that it has one extra face card per suit), and the
 “major” Arcana, which are the 22 spooky cards we usually see in horror movies. Of
 course, even though there are 22 cards in the “major” Arcana, isn’t it funny how movie
 directors almost certainly make sure we see “Death” or “The Tower” (two very
 destructive looking cards), or “The Lovers.” These three cards are very dramatic
to look at and they look great on a TV, but they are simply pictures of things happening
 to people, just like the other 75 cards. It really is no wonder that most people are a bit
 spooked by the Tarot. Television and movie directors love to use these cards as visual
 props to scare or intrigue us, and we, in turn, love to be scared and intrigued.
 The reality is that there are 78 cards in the Tarot, divided into two “camps” and the
 whole “major” and “minor” thing has come to be thought of as the “major leagues” and
 the “minor leagues” (like baseball) where one camp or “Arcana” is somehow better, or
 more important, than the other. This is completely absurd of course. It is like saying that
 breathing is more important than eating, or sleep. We need to do all three on a pretty
 regular basis or none of us will be around very long.
 So we have a deck of cards, and we can play various games with them (just like a
 “regular” deck of cards) or we can tell fortunes with them (also just like a “regular” deck
 of cards), or we can use them as magical tools, meditate on their significance, hang them
 on the wall, even amaze our friends by doing magic tricks with them. The first thing to
 do is to become friends with your personal deck, just like a poker player or gin rummy
 player becomes acquainted with a “regular” deck of cards. The Tarot is only as
 mysterious as you want it to be, although the pictures make it a lot more fun to look at
 than a plain old “regular” deck of cards.
 The easiest way to understand the Tarot is to learn the basics first and start practicing.
 The exercises provided in this course will help you build a thorough understanding and
 good working relationship with your deck in no time at all. You will learn to look into the
 card instead of looking at it, eliciting meaning through your impressions of what
 you see. Any generic written definition of a card’s meaning is at best secondary to your
 “hunch,” or psychic impression at the moment you are giving a reading. Never forget
 that. Card meanings are given as indications of direction, not as absolutes. In “real life”
 circumstances, things are rarely “black and white,” because there are always variables
 and outside influences to every situation that need to be considered. In the same way,
 every card in a spread affects other cards, and is, in turn, affected by at least one other
 card. This nudging of meaning guides you to the answers your are looking for. Your
 psychic insight will “fill in the gaps” between each card that comes up in a spread.
 Don’t worry about the layers of esoteric stuff people like to pile on top of each card right
 now. It’s a lot easier all around if you wait until after you are comfortable with your
 preferred deck before you start adding complexities. If you study the Tarot for any
 length of time, you will find all kinds of conflicting information, some of which you will
 not like or agree with at all. This is because every “expert” has their own opinion on this
 deck of 78 cards. Like anything else in life worth arguing over, these debates can get
 quite heated. All that matters right now is that you learn the basic traditional meanings
 and simultaneously learn to listen to what the cards are telling you. We have done our
best to make this all fun and easy for you.
 Use this book as a guide to help you understand what your cards are saying to you.
 Explore your sensory abilities by practicing the exercises in this book with the help of
 your Tarot cards. Your cards will work together to provide visual stimulus to guide you
 to the answers you seek, but the real magic is always within you. From the moment you
 pick up your deck, question in mind, through shuffling and laying the cards down in a
 spread, you are exercising your psychic abilities. Your cards are merely a tool, like a
 brush and canvas are to an artist. Ultimately, you are the one painting the picture of
 each reading you give. Like any other acquired skill, you will improve over time as you
 train psychic muscles you didn’t even know you had.
 Learn the exercises in this book and then go practice them. Feel free to read through our
 interpretations of each card in Sections Four and Five whenever you have a question
 about a card’s meaning. Our interpretations of each card have come from centuries of
 research and practice by metaphysical scholars. But never take any one person’s word
 on the Tarot as inviolate or unquestionable. A true understanding of the Tarot comes
 from your ability to enhance your own psychic abilities, not from a memorization of rote
 instruction.
 If you need more information, please come back to the book. At any time, you
 can also visit us online at www.AdvancedTarotSecrets.com
 and enroll in our
 free tarot course.
Section One
 GETTING STARTED
What you need to get started
 This is what you need right now to have fun learning the Tarot, quickly and easily:
 This book.
 A deck of Tarot cards (preferably one of the ones we recommend below).
 A notepad or journal and a pen to keep track of your Tarot spreads.
 Before we get you started doing the actual exercises, we would like to cover some basic
 groundwork over the next few pages. Here we will cover some basics, such as what decks
 are the best for beginners, why you might want to keep a Tarot Journal, and other
 helpful information to get you started successfully listening to your Tarot cards quickly
 and easily.
 We also have an easy 30–day guide to help you get started right away and track your
 progress. The 60– and 90–day guides are at the end of the book, along with a history of
 the Tarot, should you be curious about that. Additionally, we have included a section of
 frequently asked questions (FAQs) at the end of the book. If you ever get stuck,
 frustrated, 
or 
feel 
like 
you want to quit, please pop on to
 www.AdvancedTarotSecrets.com and find answers, or join the academy for just a dollar
 to get live help.
 Most of your understanding of the Tarot will come from actually playing
 with your Tarot cards, not from reading words in any book. Use this book as a guide
 to help you understand what your cards are saying to you. Learn the exercises and then
 go practice them. If you need more information, please come back to the book. At any
 time, you can also visit us online and ask any questions or share your ideas with us.
Recommended Decks for Beginners
 Learning the Tarot can be a daunting task, but it is a lot easier if you choose the right
 deck to learn with. “Starter decks” are ones that have the basic symbolism of the Tarot in
 bold, clear imagery. They are usually not as pretty as some of the artsy or experimental
 decks, but they are easy to learn and are consistently easy to interpret. Some
 professional readers use these “starter decks” throughout their careers, so they are not
 in any way inferior to any other deck—they are just easier to use. These decks remain
 true to the basic symbolism of the “modern Tarot,” all but established by Pamela
 Coleman (P.C.) Smith when Arthur Edward Waite had her draw up the artwork for his
 “public” deck. There are hundreds of published variations on a central theme, with
 thousands more private decks people have designed for their own personal use.
 Ultimately there are only two kinds of divination symbolism systems in the
 Tarot: those that work for you, and those that do not. In this book we have
 recommended decks that remain close to the Rider-Waite deck due to the universality of
 acceptance of the symbolism and meaning used in that deck, and the ease of spot
identification of meaning. Obviously, it does no good to stare blankly at the 7 of Clubs
 from a “regular deck of playing cards” and have to figure out mentally what that means
 while you are trying to engage your intuitive senses to discern meaning from the card’s
 placement.
 Any of the “Waite” decks by U.S. Games are highly recommended. This includes
 the Rider-Waite deck, the Original Rider-Waite Tarot (same deck, slightly different),
 the Universal Waite deck (which is the same deck only with “enhanced” artwork), or if
 you are into interestingly colored decks you might like the Albano-Waite Tarot, which
 retains the exact artwork but uses colors that are quite “vibrant.” The Golden Rider
 Tarot is yet another incarnation of P.C. Smith’s art seen through the eyes of another,
 and the Radiant Rider-Waite Tarot is a “highdefinition” edition you may like. The
 symbolism and imagery in all of these decks is the same. Only the colors and level of
 detail have been changed.
 The Hanson-Roberts deck—This deck is somewhat of a stylistic departure from the
 Pam’s art, and it is more “up close and personal,” even to the point of being “in-your
face” at times, as the scenes tend to be extreme close-ups of the general action seen in
 the Waite symbology. All in all, however, it is an excellent deck and a popular one as
 well. Once you get into the artistic style this deck presents, it will be hard to break away
 to other, more “traditional” layouts.
 The Morgan-Greer Tarot is another highly popular deck that draws from the P.C. Smith
 symbolism, but is even more close-up than the Hanson-Roberts. This really is a hit or
 miss deck; you will either fall in love with it and its borderless designs or you will simply
pass it by in search of something more to your interpretive preferences.
 The Halloween Tarot is one of the few, rare exceptions to the (general) rule that any
 modern Tarot deck will usually sacrifice a bit of traditional interpretation or divinatory
 detail for artistic license. This deck follows the Rider-Waite decks faithfully. Without
 prejudice, this is simply one of the best Tarot decks ever. Kipling West is a genius. He
 has managed to capture the essence of the Tarot and interpreted his artwork to fit the
 original meanings in a fun, approachable, and surprisingly detailed style. This is an
 excellent “second deck” as, while it is possible to learn directly from this deck, it lacks
 much of the traditional symbolism needed by students to perfect their understanding of
 Tarot symbolism. This deck is very highly recommended, but most especially if you like
 Halloween.
 Decks such as the Antichi Tarocchi Bolognesi, the Lombardy, or any of the Marseilles
 variations are, of course, “historically older” and, therefore, fundamentally “more
 correct” (if you are into the whole Fundamentalist movement thing), but in reality they
 leave a lot to be desired. They are fun to own and show off at parties; but when you need
 a quick-and-dirty reading on the local gossip, you will more than likely find yourself
 grabbing one of the Waite decks.
 We strongly recommend avoiding such decks as the Quick and Easy Tarot, as they make
 it too easy to skip the process of actually learning your craft and rely on other people’s
 interpretation of the cards. The problem with this is when your client asks for more
 information, you simply have none to give because your cards do not speak to you—they
 shout generic meanings at you. Don’t be tempted by the promises of a substitute for
 proper study and practice.
 By contrast, decks like the Salvatore Dali deck with its unique designs are pretty to look
 at but nighimpossible to get a reliable reading from when you need it most. The Gummy
 Bear Tarot is another carefully produced, highly colorful deck that is a lot of fun, but
 due to the extremely limited symbolism, we recommend it as an art collectible or a tool
 to help children understand the basics of the Tarot rather than using it for in-depth
 readings. Remember that the first job of any Tarot deck is to provide you with answers
 to questions. You need to like the artwork, but you also need to understand what the
 cards are telling you in great detail. Save the “fun and silly” Tarot decks for fun and silly
 games, and have a preferred deck for serious readings. Ultimately the choice is yours as
 to what decks you will like and use. But as you have many years to develop your skills,
 we recommend you start with any of the recommended decks and build your psychic
 muscles a bit before venturing too far into the forest of Tarot decks, as there are literally
 hundreds to choose from. Always remember that accuracy and ease of reading trump all
 other aspects when choosing a Tarot deck to work with. Otherwise, it is just a pretty
 deck of cards.
Where to buy your first deck
 Fortunately, Tarot cards have exploded in popularity over the past few decades, making
 them quite easy to find. In the past, you might have found an occasional deck in a
 bookstore or a metaphysical shop, but today you can get them on Amazon, at any decent
 bookstore, and even in some of the super-retailer mega-stores. If money is a serious
 issue at the moment and you happen across a used deck at a garage sale for one or two
 dollars, you can start with a used deck, but you want to carefully wipe each card clean
 individually with a damp cloth, and dry it immediately and thoroughly. Then let the
 whole deck sit overnight in a nice, clean pile of salt to remove any psychic residue that
 previous influences may have left behind. Used cards are “pre-broken in,” making them
 easier to shuffle, but they must be cleaned and cleansed before you start practicing with
 them. When you can, be sure to get a new deck and enjoy the experience of cards
 slipping all over the place.
 What do I keep my cards in?
 Some readers swear by the old silk scarf superstition. The Tarot has been around for a
 few centuries, and silk has been around a lot longer than that, earning a reputation as a
 highly magical fabric. Silk originated in China several millennia ago. It is created by tiny
 worms that love to munch on mulberry trees that spin cocoons of one long continuous
 thread. Silk was discovered in China and was one of history’s great secrets. NO ONE was
 allowed to export silk worms or reveal the secret of how silk (as a fabric) came to be. It is
 reported that it was a crime punishable by death. After several thousands of years (mid
6th century CE) a few monks brought eggs to Europe, but even then the worms did not
 thrive and prosper, as they really liked mulberry leaves, which Europe was sadly lacking
 in at the time. To this day, most silk still comes from Asia. The cocoons have to be boiled
 (and they do so like to float), carefully unravelled, and spun into thread. This makes silk
 one of the most high maintenance of natural fabrics, and the most mysterious, sought
 after, and “magical.” The fact that it is a bodily excretion of delicate worms who are just
 trying to build a little house to protect themselves while they transform into moths lends
 itself to the legend that silk is a protective material, like eggshell chalk.
 If you have a silk scarf that you like, this is a very pretty way to keep your cards, but then
 you will need something else to put your silk scarf in, and you have to make sure that
 your scarf is wrapped correctly so that the cards don’t fall out when you pick them up
 suddenly (this advice comes from years of silk scarf mishaps). A decorative wooden box
 is another popular option (and specifically designed “Tarot boxes” are usually big
 enough to accommodate your silk scarf as well). Other readers simply keep the original
 box (after discarding the mini booklet that comes with their deck) and add tape to hold
 the box together over the years as necessary. It’s all very personal. At the risk of
offending any traditionalists, it’s really much ado about nothing. Just keep your cards
 safe and clean.
Tarot Journals
 A Tarot Journal is simply a notepad or book that you keep track of your Tarot spreads
 in, and any impressions or notes you want to save for later review. It is your “Tarot
 diary. ”Some people swear by the idea of a journal to jot down every reading and
 every revelation they receive, and this is good—because it works for them. Other,
 highly skilled readers ignore this completely. You may start a Tarot Journal of your
 own only to stop writing it in altogether, and that is fine as well. The dilemma is the
 personal importance you assign to tracking every minute detail of your Tarot progress
 versus spending more time writing than reading (your cards). This is a decision
 only you can make for yourself.
 If you decide that you want to try your hand at a Tarot Journal, simply grab a notepad,
 three-ring binder, or a bound book of blank pages (any generic journal will do) and
 scribble out any spreads you cast that seem interesting enough to note. Just remember
 to actually make the time to go back and look at them later. You may find that you are
 having too much fun casting new spreads to spend a lot of time reading up on old
 spreads you threw months ago. We neither recommend nor discourage you in keeping a
 Tarot Journal. Just make sure that if you do keep a Tarot Journal, it does not
 interfere with your actual hands-on time spent playing with your cards.
What your cards mean
 One of the most important things to know and spend some time thinking about when
 first deciphering the Tarot is that the Tarot was devised under a culture of Feudalism.
 Everyone had their fixed place in society. Kings and queens, dukes, knights, and
 peasants all existed in their own worlds of experience. A cobbler, farmer, or blacksmith
 could not begin to fathom the world his or her emperor lived in. The very notion of
 endless days without manual labor, and dirt from it that got under your skin and never
 truly went away, was as foreign as any invading army.
 The “common man” spent his days from sunup to sundown working his trade for his
 family and community. The luxuries of court were completely unknown and unimagined
 to most peasants, lest they rebel or go insane at the injustice of it all. This very schism of
 society naturally found its way into the Tarot and continues to this day. Looking at the
 cards, we are looking back in history, where ownership of land and animals or standing
 armies meant power of life and death over others as far as one’s eye could see. These
 cards record history and its societal beliefs in picture form, and the stories they tell
 reveal humanity, often in a very dark light. This is why we have an overclass of cards
 (the “major” Arcana) as well as a permanent underclass (the “minor” Arcana—which
 include the court, or ruling cards of the underclass). For beyond the command of the
 kings and queens of every country were the gods themselves, the very forces of nature.
 The Tarot is at once both polytheistic and monotheistic, being born of that time of
 Christian domination of Europe, but when old beliefs still held tightly among the
 majority of its citizens. “God” above all was the mantra, but peasants and nobles alike
 still hung horseshoes above their doors, warded off vampires with garlic, and left honey
 cakes out for the fey.
 Poverty, abuse of all kinds, death, and disease were far more commonplace than we can
 begin to imagine today, and generally thought of as evil spirits, thus necessitating good
 luck charms and various protections to keep them at bay. The Tarot reveals these beliefs
 in images, but so many beliefs of the Middle Ages and even the Renaissance are so
 laughable today that it is hard to fathom people taking them seriously. Because the Tarot
 is so steeped in these beliefs and opinions of how the world functioned, it remains a
 mystery to most people inaccessible through its saturation with the mindset of times
 long abandoned. So when we look at the images of the Tarot, most especially those of
 the oldest surviving decks, we see concepts that appear almost fairy tale-like, and often
 alien to common sense. We have to look at their symbolism rather than seeing cards as
 concrete ideals of nature and science. Ultimately, we realize that the world is hardly flat,
 but the creators of the Tarot did not. Thus, we must translate a vision of the world
 around us that has long since been displaced into our own “modern” views (for certainly
future humanity will laugh at us as well) and apply the inherent wisdom left behind in
 the cards to our own existence to create healthier and happier lives “here and now.”
 In the end, it all comes down to this: “historical meaning” versus what the cards say to
 you overall, and what they say “right now.” Who is “right”? Why, you are, of course! You
 learn to listen to your intuition which will tell you whether the scholarly interpretation is
 applicable or not. The Tarot is notoriously capricious at times. Practice makes you an
 expert. Knowing the “traditional meaning” is as essential as knowing how to read cards
 at face value, and knowing when to trust your instincts, even in the face of obstacles or
 “obvious” meanings.
Upside-down Tarot cards
 (“Reversals” and what to do with them)
 When you are dealing out your cards (“casting a spread”) for a reading and a card
 comes out “turned around,” so that it is pointing down instead of up (like the rest of the
 cards), you have two basic choices; turn it around so that it matches all of the other
 cards, or read it reversed. Either choice is perfectly acceptable. Some Tarot readers
 spend their entire career notreading cards reversed. The whole point of a reversed card
 is simply that of giving you more information to work with. The meaning of a reversed
 card is usually pretty straightforward. It means the opposite, or “less of” what the card
 would normally mean. Okay, so there is the general guide. Now for the sake of your
 sanity when reading for clients, keep in mind that every card is ALWAYS affected by the
 other cards in your readings. If you are too rigid with your interpretations of each card,
 you limit yourself to 78 meanings, or 156 (if our math is correct) meanings when you
 include reversals.
 So, let’s have an example: The Ace of Swords comes to mind, and it is an excellent card
 as it is very cardinal and uncluttered with subtle innuendo. If the Ace of Swords comes
 up at the end of the reading, you might say “You win!” The Ace of Swords (upright) is a
 card of victory: victory through struggle, victory over your enemies, domination of
 others, or someone coming to help you. This is where other cards comes in. They can
 explain “how” and “where” you will win. If the Ace of Swords comes up in a reading
 reversed, it could mean “you lose.”
 But how? Does it mean that your plans will not turn out how you like? That could be
 losing; but just like the Sword of Damocles, it could be something you dodge, versus say
 the Ten of Swords, which is more of a “hitting every step of the stairs on the way down”
 unhappy ending. Sometimes the cards are not as plain as the pictures on them. This is
 where “the mystery of the Tarot” and all of that spooky stuff comes in. The future is not
 exactly easy to decipher, which is why we recommend lots of practice. Reading cards
 reversed simply allows you more information, but it is still up to you to figure out how
 the cards all fit together and how they match up to physical reality. Only time and
 practice reading (and seeing results) will fully teach you the ins and outs, but at the
 beginning (when you are first learning all of this) it may be easier to simply turn the
 cards “upright” while practicing your exercises until you have a solid grasp of the Tarot.
 If reading cards reversed is making your head spin, or even slowing you down in any
 way, try reading your cards only “upright” for 60 days and then see where you are.
Tarot cards and the directions
 This is a touchy subject for so many reasons. If you would like to avoid the whole of it
 and simply subscribe to the notion that the four suits of the Tarot point to any particular
 direction because you read something somewhere, or someone told you this or that,
 then please by all means do so. In most of your readings, the suit will hardly be an
 indicator of direction. As to magical work, your particular school (Wicca, Druidic,
 Kabbalistic, et al.) will demand that you follow their traditions.
 We believe differently. For simplicity (at least in this book) the elemental
 correspondence of the Tarot suits are given as follows: 
Wands = Fire
 Cups = Water
 Swords = Air
 Coins = Earth
 This is the common general consensus and there are very few arguments on this, so that
 is what we will use here. It is worth noting that the suits ofSwords and Wands can be
 swapped elementally, but we won’t worry about that in this book—as it would only
 enrage too many people who have invested their belief in the Tarot with far too many
 layers of meaning anyway. We have assigned each card its own direction based on the
 astrological correspondence of its unique energy. You will see these on each “minor”
 Arcana card detail page. You can use or ignore these meanings as you wish. But... if the
 Tarot suits are assigned to elements, then the simple question is what the direction of
 those elements are. Here are the most basic associations available and they will serve
 you well should you choose to use them.
 Suit
 Wands:
 Cups:
 Swords:
 Coins:
 East
 North
 West
 South
 Direction
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
 Season
 Fire
 Water
 Air
 Earth
 Element
 We will look at the “minor” Arcana first because they “make sense.” They fit together
 nicely in everyday society. The “major” cards are a humble-jumble to most people, so
 we will leave them until later, even though they are more exotic and mysterious. It is
 important not to overlook the importance of the “minor” Arcana. The term “minor
 Arcana” is actually a misnomer. It gives the impression that these 56 cards are somehow
 less important or less powerful than the 22 “majors.”
 The “minor” Arcana serves to clarify the actual details needed for interpretations, while
the “major” Arcana serves as a set of symbols of elements of existence or society. They
 all have psychological correspondences, but they are impossibly vague for daily use
 without the “minors” to help clarify them. The four suits of “minor” Arcana are called
 Wands, Cups, Swords, and Pentacles in the Rider-Waite deck, which we will be using to
 illustrate the Tarot in this book, as the “Waite” decks are some of the very best
 “beginning decks” that can also serve you well into decades of practice. Most modern
 Tarot decks draw from the symbolism set forth in the Rider-Waite deck.
 The names of the various suits change from deck to deck with no loss of credibility.
 “Uncle Al” (Crowley) uses the term Disks in his Thoth deck. In this book we will use the
 term Coins as that is what the suit represents: coins (wealth, earthly energies, and
 possessions). Other suits may use the terms “coins,” “staves,” “acorns,” “chalices,” and
 so on. What matters is that you build a familiarity with the deck that appeals to you.
 After that, everyone else can call the suits of their deck whatever they like as it won’t
 affect the quality and accuracy of your readings. That being said, we have included a
 quick breakdown of what each suit “traditionally implies” at the beginning of each suit
 (found later in this book). Take all of this with a grain of salt. If it helps you give better
 readings, use it. If not, toss it aside until you decide differently. Remember at all times
 that what is most important is that you know what your cards mean and that they work
 consistently for you. This comes mostly from practice, but scholarly knowledge is of
 inestimable value to both the beginner and the “expert.”
Five great ways to start an argument
 One of the most interesting aspects of the Tarot is the highly democratic nature of it all.
 Everyone has an equal voice in what any one card means, both to themselves and to the
 world. We all get to choose what we think the cards mean, and over time we develop our
 own intimate understandings of each card based on both study and our experiences. But
 we also have the power of our individual belief adding to the “collective wisdom” of the
 Tarot every time we give a reading or have a discussion about the Tarot. We may not
 notice the power of our persuasion when our client runs into a friend three days after we
 gave them a reading and says something to the effect of “... and then in my reading
 Saturday The Tower came up and that means my jerk boss is going to get fired!” Each
 time you give a reading or have a debate (or heated argument) about what this card
 means versus that card, you are contributing to a discussion that has spanned centuries.
 Your personal opinion is as valid as anyone else’s as long as (a) you have studied the
 scholarly information and, therefore, are quoting someone else, or (b) you actually used
 your cards and are reporting your own personal findings.
 As an example: One expert may write in the book that The Lovers represents the
 astrological sign of Gemini. Being a professional astrologer and Tarot reader for several
 decades with tens of thousands of clients, I may respond (after I finally stop rolling
 around on the floor in violent fits of hysterical laughter) that “in my humble opinion” I
 have found that The Lovers is more properly indicative of the qualities of Venus (the
 planet) or Aphrodite (the Goddess) and relates directly to the feminine sign of Taurus
 (Earth: when The Lovers indicates sensual obsessions, such as food, chocolate, sex,
 perfumes, jewelry, etc.) or the masculine sign of Libra (Air: when relating to the arts,
 romance, marriage, contracts, fashion, and so on). In the interest of us all getting along
 nicely, so that we can collectively share our interest in the Tarot and not haggle over
 trivialities of our personal beliefs, it would be prudent of me to refrain from shouting at
 said author that, “You, sir, are a poo-poo head!” They may be quoting Levi, or simply
 reciting what their teacher taught them. If it works for you in “real life,” it is
 valid.
 The true test of the Tarot as a divination tool is whether it works with you to provide
 reliable answers in a clear fashion that is easily decipherable and highly repeatable. Can
 you rely on it consistently? Do you feel comfortable (as you gain experience through
 practice) giving advice based on what you see? We can all argue over what each and any
 card means until we are hoarse from shouting, but what matters more than what any
 (living or) long-dead “authority” says about the cards is what the cards say to you.
 Listen to your teachers and to the advice from the past, and see (over time) how these
 work for you. Take what you learn as a starting point, not an ending one. Developing
this attitude toward learning metaphysics will save you years of frustration and
 lackluster results.
 Using the Tarot as a magical tool or psychological aid (this is more heavily covered in
 our advanced courses) requires you to have an implicit understanding and trust of the
 symbols you are working with. You can’t pull out your deck of cards and a random book
 of Tarot meanings and expect to conjure up a better life for yourself, or work the laws of
 attraction and repulsion based on a generic interpretation laid out on paper for the
 masses. Your situation in life is unique to you, even though it contains commonalities
 and similarities with millions of other people. Most of the process of magic or miracles is
 intent and clarity of purpose and motivation. Tarot cards make a great visual stimulus
 that can work with your subconscious to magnetically affect the world around you—but
 unless and until you have an understanding of, and a bond with, the cards you are using
 —you are simply playing with pretty pictures that are about as effective as generalized
 visualization boards. So, please leave the arguing to the novices and acolytes, and you
 invest your time more fruitfully by actually playing with your cards and keeping an open
 mind when discussing the Tarot with others.
Easy Study Guides
 Learning the Tarot should be fun. Don’t push yourself too hard or try to master every
 nuance of the Tarot too quickly or you will drive yourself crazy. The basic meanings of
 each card are easy enough to learn (which is why they have pictures instead of numbers
 and “pips” like poker cards do). But over the coming years you will gradually begin to
 see all sorts of interesting meanings and messages from your Tarot cards, different uses
 for them, and even symbolism you missed before. The only important symbolism
 in the Tarot is the symbolism that you see “right now.” That is one of the most
 well-kept secrets of the Tarot, so we might as well give you your grand-master adept hat
 now.
 You see, the various layers of symbolism that have been added to any of the hundreds of
 Tarot decks (currently available on the market) over the years are only “activated” when
 you interact with them. This is Mystery School 101, and you might as well know it now:
 Hide your secrets in plain sight and watch your students “realize them” as
 their education progresses. We can point to a symbol and explain it to you; but
 until you are ready to “see” it and you have the need, it will just be a meaningless
 squiggle with no more power over you than a picture of a flower. “What you see is what
 you get.” This holds true for visualization-based magical work and it holds true for the
 Tarot. You only need to know enough to understand what you are seeing in a reading.
 The more you study and practice, however, the more you will see, and the more clearly
 you will be able to explain to your clients what they face and how to make the best of it
 all. So don’t worry about what you can’t see just yet, and have fun exploring the world
 around you with a new set of eyes. With that in mind, take the “study guides” we have
 provided as simply that: guides, not gospel. You will learn at your own pace no matter
 what anyone tells you, so you might as well have fun with it along the way. Remember,
 there are answers to many questions at AdvancedTarotSecrets.com and there is always
 someone close by to help you as an academy student.
 Your first 30 days
 Make sure to read through the entire book at least once during your first 30 days. This is
 above and beyond any “exercise and practice time” you spend bonding with your cards.
 This includes reading our interpretations of each card, but feel free to skim over any
 part that is too confusing at the moment. We want you to get a feel for the cards and see
 where your learning is progressing, but we do not want you to get overwhelmed with
 your new toy and all of its subtleties.
 Start with the exercises: Do the exercises in order (don’t jump to exercise 11 before doing
exercise 4), even if you have read cards before. The exercises are laid out in the order to
 build your skills in the actual readings you will be doing later, especially the multi-card
 spreads. If you can grab a friend (especially if they have their own deck and a copy of
 this book as well), work with them as much as possible, but make time to do all of the
 exercises on your own as well. This “me time” is essential to developing your own highly
 personal opinions of the cards. Practicing with your friends or other students is
 extremely helpful and makes the learning process more fun, but it also has the effect of
 making the Tarot a third party object rather than a voice you are communicating with,
 and through. Your deck will eventually become an extension of your voice as well as your
 ears, so it is imperative that you develop a bond with your cards early on to make your
 learning process easy and fun.
 Once you are comfortable with each exercise, try casting simple spreads several times
 during the day or throughout the week (depending on how often you can slip out your
 cards for a “quickie”) just for fun. Ask your deck meaningful questions on extremely
 simple or even trivial matters, like whether you should have a salad or a sandwich for
 lunch, or how many hours before your boss sneaks out to play golf on company time.
 Have fun getting practice speaking with your cards without the pressure of “life or
 death” readings and people hanging on your every word. The actual answers right now
 are less important than the overall feel you are getting for your cards. Sometimes you
 will be cornered by a friend or a coworker who “has to know” if their boyfriend really
 loves them, or if they will get a raise, have kids, or if their wife is having an affair. Laugh
 politely at the thought of suddenly becoming “the all-seeing Zolar” when you feel
 pressured by people, who are close to you, begging for a reading. Explain to them that
 you can toss out a few cards “just for fun” but that you are still learning, and so you don’t
 want them to take anything they see too seriously. Also, if you are at work, make sure
 you are on your lunch break lest jealous coworkers try to get you in trouble with the
 boss. Basically, have fun and keep your cards as close by as you can so you can “play
 with them for a moment” whenever you see an opportunity to ask them a fun question.
 Try to get some serious alone time with your Tarot cards every day. We recommend at
 least 5-15 minutes every day, and when you can, spend 30 minutes doing your exercises
 or casting simple spreads. This is in addition to time you spend with your friends or
 fellow students. This means that your deck will have to be fairly accessible. Otherwise, it
 will become a chore, and reading the Tarot should never become a chore. At some point
 in your first 30 days, preferably after you have spent a few weeks doing the exercises and
 you have thrown several one-, two-, and three-card spreads (“just for fun”), try casting
 either the Celtic Cross or the Roundabout spreads. Pick a mildly serious question, one
 that faces you right now. Sit quietly shuffling the cards and think carefully on the
 answers you are looking for.Cast the spread and be sure to write out the card positions
 in a Tarot Journal, or leave the cards out for a while and come back and look at them a
 few more times over the next few days. Take the reading with a grain of salt for now.
Just “watch and see” while you go about your daily actions as you would without the
 advice of the Tarot. You want to start to see spreads play out in your “real life” over time
 so you can develop a better instinct for timing and the subtleties of meaning.
 If you ever see something “scary,” don’t panic. You might have not bothered to shuffle
 thoroughly, or you may have been daydreaming about something else, or you might be
 in a bad mood. Never be afraid to pick up a spread and shuffle the deck to re-cast it. If
 the meaning comes out the same, even with different cards, then you should make a
 note of the advice (and the cards of both readings) and visit us online if you need help.
 Someone in the forums will certainly have an opinion (as people are never at a loss for
 opinions). By the way: If all of the cards come out reversed, just turn the deck around. It
 sounds basic, but it really does work.
 So your first 30 days should see you practicing as often as you can (at least 5-15 minutes
 a day, and more on some days of the week), doing exercises 1 through 11, and casting
 simple spreads for trivial matters “just for fun.” Never underestimate the value of “just
 for fun,” as it gives you the experience of actual practice and the ability to experiment
 leisurely, but it removes the pressure of performing for an audience or the “need to be
 right.” Once again: When you feel fairly comfortable with exercises 1 through 11 (and
 you have done them allat least 20 or 30 times over the course of a few weeks)and you
 have cast several one-, two-, and threecard spreads, try your hand at the Celtic Cross
 and the Roundabout spreads. You can, of course, try them out earlier, but the whole
 point of having you do all of the exercises and simple spreads first is to help you build
 an intimate understanding of the relationship cards play with each other in multi-card
 spreads. If you cast a Celtic Cross spread now and then again after you have spent the
 next few weeks doing the exercises (1-11, not the really crazy “advanced” ones we torture
 you with), you will see much more a few weeks from now because you will
 understand how the cards interact with each other and change the meanings of their
 friends (kind of like our friends influence us, even when we don’t want them to).
 Most of all, you should be having fun asking silly and serious questions, but not putting
 too much stock in the answer you get just yet, and you should be doing this while
 dodging pressure from your friends and complete strangers to predict their future:
 “Pleeeease, no... really anything you see will be fine, I promise!!” (Expect to hear a lot
 of this over the next few years.)
Section Two
 THE FASTEST WAY TO GET TO KNOW
 YOUR CARDS
The fastest way to get to know your cards...
 The exercises in this section have been used throughout the years to help initiates
 become adepts by removing the process rote memorization of generic meanings, and
 replacing it with actual hands-on intuitive interpretation of the cards, just as if you
 were actually giving a reading to a client or ferreting out information on a particular
 mystery you are confronted with. These exercises will feel awkward and strange
 at first. Please do NOT give up and look for written explanations of the card meanings
 during your exercise time. Instead, put yourself in the picture. You could be one of
 the people involved in the action (e.g., you may be the bully in the 5 of Swords, or
 you may be one of the unhappy people walking away from him), or you might be
 standing just off to the side of the picture watching the people in the card interact.
 Some of those people may be your friends, and others you may dislike completely. Don’t
 try to see the card you are staring at as an omen of something that is going to happen.
 Get inside it and walk around. Ask the people, “Hey! Just what do you think you are
 doing here, anyway?” Ask the people walking in the snow outside of the church in the 5
 of Coins why they are not inside where it is warm. Poke “Mr. Magician” and ask him
 whether he really knows his stuff, or if he is just posing for a portrait. If you were
 walking down the road and a giant hand suddenly popped out of a nearby cloud and
 offered you a large gold coin the size of a small house (as happens in the Ace of Coins),
 what would you do? Do this any time you are looking at a card during an exercise or a
 reading and you can’t find a clear meaning.
 The exercises in this book are designed to train your psychic muscles as well as pattern
 recognition, spatial thought processes, and are of key importance to mastering the
 ability to manifest from visual stimulus (“Laws of Attraction and Repulsion”). The
 point is not simply to be able to tell someone what you see in their future, but to help
 them (and yourself) control their future by being able to use the images on the cards to
 actually conjure up something pleasant. These exercises have not been put forth to the
 general public before now, but we have faith in your ability to grasp them, and sharpen
 your talents quickly by using them on your own. Due to the processes involved in self
study of metaphysics, magic, and philosophy, some answers must be discovered by the
 student, and cannot be spoon-fed. Thus, it is up to you to practice each exercise until
 you master it and can execute it on command any time, anywhere. You can work on
 these exercises in any order you like, but we strongly recommend that you become at a
 minimum “somewhat proficient” with them in the order they are presented. Once you
 are capable of performing each of the exercises herein, you can do them in any order you
 like to keep from getting bored. As always, if you get lost, stuck, or frustrated at any
 time, you can visit us online at AdvancedTarotSecrets.com and get help if you are an
 academy student. You are also welcome to share your thoughts and advice with others as
you advance in skill and esoteric wisdom.
Introduction to the basic exercises
 Full “descriptions and traditional meanings” of the cards are in Sections Four and Five.
 If you get the urge to look up a particular card, you will notice that there are shaded tabs
 to make finding your exact card quick and easy. However, the whole purpose of this
 book is to teach you how to quickly and easily learn and master the Tarot,becoming
 friends with the cards in your deck, without having to become dependent on a book for
 answers.Any book can tell you what that particular author believes the Tarot cards
 mean. This is important knowledge to have, and reading books on the Tarot by several
 authors will certainly help expand your understanding of the cards. But... Only you can
 decide what your cards mean when you are face-to-face with a friend, a client, or some
 random stranger who saw your cards and simply begged you to do a reading until you
 finally caved in (this happens a lot more than you can imagine).
 When you find yourself faced with worried eyes from across the table, asking you, “Is
 that bad? It looks bad! What does it mean?” we won’t be there holding your hand
 (sorry). Neither will any of the authors whose books you have read. It will be up to you,
 and you alone, to relax, politely “shh” your audience, and listen to what the cards are
 telling you at that moment. Your scholarly knowledge of the cards will be invaluable at
 times like these (so please don’t skip the part where you read up on what the cards
 “traditionally mean”), but far more important will be the inner voice or subtle nudge
 that tells you that this card over here is exactly what it looks like in the picture, while
 this other card is the reversed traditional meaning, but cards three, four, and seven all
 combine to point to...” So, the first thing we will do is have you set aside “traditional
 meanings” for now, and start getting acquainted with your cards. These exercises will
 help you greatly strengthen your psychic muscles, and enhance your perception abilities.
 They will also teach you how to spot and work with patterns to build a solid foundation
 of knowledge in each reading before you start handing out advice.
 In the following exercises we will ask you to separate out the “major” Arcana cards of
 your deck (the 22 cards with the captions at the bottom such as “The Fool,” “Strength,”
 and “The World,” etc.) and simply set them aside for now. We will be working
 exclusively with the remaining 56 cards (the “minor”Arcana) at the beginning.
 This will greatly simplify the learning process for you as the “minor” Arcana cards are
 far more expressive and “accessible.” We will call this 56-card deck (the “minor” Arcana)
 your “study deck.” That is the term you will see throughout this workbook.
 Later, after you are quite comfortable with the exercises and you can quickly and easily
 spot patterns and develop story lines with the “minor” Arcana, we would like you to add
 the remaining 22 “major” Arcana cards to your deck and repeat your study of these
 exercises. Once you thoroughly grasp the concepts that are involved, learning the
“major” Arcana will be easier than you can imagine now. When we add the “major”
 Arcana back in, the whole deck will be called your “practice deck.”
 Finally, the term we will use to describe any deck you read with for yourself or clients
 (paying or not) will be your “working deck.” Your working deck(s) will be your “go-to”
 Tarot decks, the ones you rely on when you are serious about getting results. This
 differentiates them from any other decks that you play games with (at parties) or have
 around because they are pretty. Over time you will probably buy a few Tarot decks you
 like, and you may find that some are pretty to look at but don’t read very well and others
 that are not as aesthetically pleasing give you solid answers. If you are fortunate, you
 will hopefully find “just the right deck” that is pretty—and—works the best for you. Just
 remember though, your working decks (pretty or not) are your bread and butter. They
 help you change lives. Your artsy and party decks are for fun.
Exercise One - Face value
 This is an easy exercise, but it is also the most important part of your journey along the
 path which is the Tarot, so please do this one often, even long after you have “mastered”
 the meanings and hidden wisdom of the Tarot. Regardless of what you read anywhere,
 including in the pages of this book, the most important meaning you can discern from
 the Tarot is the one that resonates within you. Nothing else matters. That is why Tarot
 cards have images on them. Visual symbols provide an immediate stimulation of your
 subconscious mind that written descriptions cannot achieve.
 You are impacted and affected by what you see, so rather than allowing your knowledge
 of the Tarot to become little more than a knee-jerk reaction to the writings of some long
dead “authority” of mysticism, we want you to see with your own eyes first. This skill is
 vastly underrated by too many people, but it is the fundamental talent of the grand
 master (shh! Don’t tell anyone we told you that—you aren’t supposed to learn that until
 year 7 of mystery school). What makes a “master” just that is their ability to combine
 traditional scholarly knowledge with ageless wisdom (which we can all use some of), and
 their finely attuned instinct to know what the best course of action is at the moment.
 This is true of any profession, and most especially true in the esoteric sciences. So the
 easiest and most direct path is to start training you to trust and sharpen your instincts
 from the very beginning, rather than try to force you to learn a set of rules and dogma in
 a sterile environment. Look at it this way: Long before you learned vowels and
 consonants, you knew what an apple was, or what flavor of ice cream you liked the best.
 Labels are identifiers; they are not the object itself. That being said, let’s start with the
 objects. We will begin with the so-called “minor” Arcana.
 Dig out your cards, and if they are not in order, please take a moment to put them so.
 Make five piles: One for each suit, or house, and one pile for the “major” Arcana,
 which you can simply toss haphazardly in no particular order. They are not important
 right now. Sort out each of your suits Ace through 10 and then Page, Knight, Queen,
 and finally King.
 Now pick up the suit of Wands. If you are using a different deck than the one we use to
 illustrate this book, your deck may use any of the following terms: “Rods, Staves, Clubs,
 Sticks, etc.” Once you have the right suit in your hand, please proceed.
 Starting with the Ace of Wands, look at it and ask your mind what it sees. If you were
 standing in that picture,how would it affect you? You can describe the image to yourself
 (“I see a hand holding a stick—so what?”), or you can focus on any symbols you happen
 to be familiar with. The image may be static, or in this case, the falling leaves may
 indicate that the stick is being shaken, as in the term “shaking the tree.” It’s all very
personal and highly individual. All that matters is that you look at the card and see what
 it says to you.
 If any particular card makes an impression on you beyond what is in the picture, that is
 good as well. For example, if theAce of Wands says to you, “God’s got his thumpin’
 stick!” that is just as valid as any interpretation you will ever read in a book, for it is your
 mind processing the visual stimulus to create a sense of meaning and order from the
 card. This is the purpose of the Tarot in any case.
 So, on to the next card. Take a look at the 2 of Wands. That’s the one with the man
 standing between two sticks, holding a globe. What does that say to you? What does it
 look like he is doing? Why would he possibly do that anyway? If you were standing next
 to him, what would you ask him? What is he looking at anyway? Is he planning
 something big? Can you tell who he might be in society (a merchant, a guard, a king, a
 thief...) by the way he is dressed and what he is doing?
 Go through the rest of the suit of Wands, examining each card casually for as long as you
 like. Generally we recommend no more than 2-3 minutes per card your first few times
 through. You can even “spot” read them, forcing yourself to look at them for only 10-15
 seconds before flipping them over and asking yourself what you just saw, and what it
 means to you at face value. Remember, your opinion is as valid as any “expert’s” you
 will ever meet. Other people can enhance your understanding of what you experience,
 but no one can dictate what you see and feel. When you feel comfortable, go through the
 rest of the suits, looking at each and asking each card who it is and what it does. Start
 with theCups, then the Swords, and finally the Coins (or Pentacles). Don’t push yourself
 too hard, but try to do this at least once a day over the next few weeks.
 A quick note on “Pentacles.” No matter what your deck calls them, see them as gold
 coins, not as religious or magical symbols. The seditious act of changing coins into
 pentacles in the circles of the suit of Coins was a whim of an artist long ago that detracts
 from the meaning of the suit, which is “money.” Instead they look like wooden pagan
 symbols painted yellow, which makes interpretation needlessly confusing and
 counterintuitive. Adding “stars” to the suit of Coins has served no purpose except to
 confuse and intimidate the public, and of course to enrage conservative Christian sects
 in the twentieth century (which is always fun). When you create the art for your own
 personal deck one day, you can add pink fuzzy bunnies if you like to your coins with no
 ill effects. In any case, please proceed with your glances at each individual card of the
 “minor” Arcana, suit by suit, asking yourself what surface impressions you get from each
 card.
 Okay I did that... now what?
Hopefully now you have gone through each of the suits, 1 through 10 and glanced at the
 royal family of each suit. You should see the subtle themes of each suit starting to form,
 and the differences between the royal families. Now pick a suit and lay out all fourteen
 cards of that suit. If you have the space available, toss the royal family down in order
 (Page, Knight, Queen, King) and make either two horizontal rows of five cards each, or
 one long row of ten cards with the rest just below the court cards. In either case, put
 them in order from Ace to 10. Leave the “major” Arcana off to the side for right now. Do
 any patterns jump out at you? Do you see any themes? It’s okay at this moment if you
 can, or if you can’t. At this point we are just glancing at the cards as a group and seeing
 if anything jumps out. If not, pile them back up in order and set them aside and do the
 same with the rest of the suits. If you would like an example of what we mean, please see
 the shaded box below. Our example theme below is entirely optional, and should not
 impede your personal conclusions.
 Throughout this book we will consistently admonish you not to accept other people’s
 interpretation of the Tarot cards as your own unless you agree with their perceptions,
 and even then we strongly encourage you to remember that meanings change from
 reading to reading. Listen to your teachers but hold random opinions you hear or read
 in polite contempt until you have had an opportunity to verify them for yourself. The
 very worst thing you can do to yourself is to accept any teaching as sacred and
 sacrosanct, above questioning. The sooner you learn this and adapt to the liquid nature
 of the Tarot, the easier (and more accurate) your readings will be. Modern “traditional
 meanings” are nothing more than a confusing amalgamation of centuries of opinion and
 interference by countless “experts,” much of which is highly contradictory. Keep
 studying, keep practicing. Perhaps one day in the near future you will rewrite the “true
 meaning” of the Tarot and we will all have to listen to you as “the preeminent authority.”
 Here is one possible theme or pattern one might see in the suit of Wands
 (Rider-Waite deck): perhaps the ease of life (we see in the 4) leads to
 competition and strife (in the 5), and the victor claims his dominance (in the
 6), until he is challenged (in the 7). Some cards will flow together, while others
 do not. Also, each suit has its theme: for example, the suit of Wands is more
 physically aggressive than the suit of Coins.
Exercise One - Visual Examples
 Here are a few visual examples with some thoughts on what the cards might be saying at
 first blush. These are intended only as an aid to those who are having difficulty with this
 exercise. Please do not allow these examples to cloud or distort your own unique
 perceptions.
This guy looks like he is trying to hold onto his money and show off
 how wealthy he is at the same time.
This card looks pretty happy. Family, nice house with lots of land,
 even a rainbow. Looks like they got what they want.
What a jerk! It’s bad enough to bully people, but to stand and gloat
 over them as well won’t make you any friends.
 And here are three cards in sequence...
 (make up your own interpretations if you like)
So much fighting here! Notice that everyone has their own take on
 things.
Well, looks like this guy won. Now he is the king of the hill for a time.
Well, that didn’t last very long. It seems now that everyone wants to
 take him on.
Exercise “1A” - Looking beyond “face value”
 (Please get out your study deck.) This is a good exercise to practice with a friend or two,
 or in a class. There are no “right” or “wrong” answers to the questions posed here,
 merely the value of each observation in a particular reading. The goal of this exercise is
 to quickly spot the “face” value of each card, and then to quickly spot additional
 implications suggested. Take no more than five seconds per person. If you see
 something, give yourself a gold star. If not, simply flip the card and proceed to the next.
 In a classroom setting it is usually best to ask for students to volunteer answers due to
 the escalating difficulty with each additional meaning applied. If you happen to be alone
 at the moment and want to stretch your perceptive abilities, then simply give yourself a
 few seconds to “look beyond the most obvious,” but limit yourself to what comes to mind
 quickly. There is absolutely no value at this time in adding stress to your studies. Below
 are a few visual examples.
(Person one:)
 Okay, first impression: Our friend here has “had enough” and now he
 is leaving. He has set everything in order and he doesn’t even stop to
 say goodbye.
 (Person two:)
 Yes, but look! It’s night! He’s probably skipping town.
 (Person three:)
 I thought he was going hiking actually. See? He has a jacket, and
 boots, and a walking stick
(Person one:)
 I dunno... It looks like a thief to me.
 (Person two:)
 I got nothing. (grrr...)
 (Person three:)
 But look at those guys in the background on the left. They look like the
 camp belongs to them. It seems that someone is goofing around
 instead of doing their job. They probably should have had a guard
 dog rather than the lazy bum they hired to watch their swords.
(Person one:)
 This is emptiness of the soul. It is an allegory of having wealth
 without a deeper connection to what is most important in life: health,
 love, and a connection to nature.
 (Person two:)
 I thought they were just homeless.
 (Person three:)
 Ow. I got this card once. Two days later, my jerk landlord kicked me
 out of the house!
 (Person four:)
 No, can’t you see? This is the abject failure of religion to attend to the
 needs of the poor, the injured, and the downtrodden. These are the
 very people religion claims to help when the church asks you to fork
 over your wallet! This is the basis of everything that is wrong with
 society, when compassion is just a marketing tool for greed and a lust
for unquestionable power —
 (Person one:)
 Okay, I think my beloved activist girlfriend has had a wee bit too
 much caffeine today.
 (Person two:)
 I want a Pop-Tart...
Exercise Two - “Me and you”
 First, take the “major” Arcana and toss them aside. We won’t be using them for a while.
 Place them back in the box, or bag, silk wrap, or whatever protective container or
 wrapping you keep your cards in. We will get to them later on. (e.g., Please get out your
 study deck again.)
 This exercise builds on what you just learned. This is the first time we will ask you to
 shuffle your deck. It is important to shuffle them thoroughly and completely for this
 exercise. Speaking of shuffling your Tarot cards, unless you have a very small deck, they
 will more than likely be difficult and even annoying to shuffle,especially when they are
 “brand new,” stiff, and very slippery. If your cards fly in all directions, don’t take it
 personally—it happens to all of us. Just try not to let them get dirty or damaged while
 you are figuring out your preferred method of shuffling. So let’s talk about shuffling:
 Unless you have very large hands, the Tarot cards of your deck will be all but impossible
 (at first anyway) to shuffle “lengthwise,” like most people shuffle a “regular deck of
 cards” (the 52-card playing deck). The Tarot has 78 cards and they are much larger and
 each card is also thicker. After cutting them into two piles, some readers like to shuffle
 them sideways (holding them by their sides, instead of their ends), while other readers
 have success with the “Las Vegas” method of bending up the corners rather than the
 sides or the ends. This method leaves the cards sitting on the table so all you have to do
 is to pick up the corners, not the whole deck. Another perfectly acceptable method if you
 read cards reversed (as long as your table or surface area is clean) is to simply spread
 the cards in a massive mish-mash pile, and keep circulating them gently under, and
 over, and through each other until they are successfully randomized to cut or shuffle.
 Cutting can be done from one hand to another, and can be used as a form of shuffling, or
 you can cut the cards into three piles, or let your clients cut them. The important thing
 to remember is that these are your cards and thus they are subject to your rules. If you
 don’t want anyone touching them, that is just fine. On the other hand, if you want to
 use them as party favors, or play games with them, that is fine as well. Just try not to
 damage them, as they are an important tool. The other thing to remember is that the
 cards must be thoroughly randomized while you are considering the question at hand,
 or you will simply get a bunch of random cards to try to interpret. Listen to your inner
 voice when it comes to telling you when to stop shuffling. Over time you will develop
 habits that work for you. Allow others to share their methods, but don’t allow anyone to
 convince you that they hold some deep and mighty secret of how to handle your Tarot
 cards that no one else knows. Use what works for you.
 Once you have your cards shuffled...
Draw the top card from your deck and place it in front of you, slightly to the right, and
 say to yourself (or a friend if you have one handy to help you with this exercise), “------
 This is what happens to you ------
 ,” and place the second card in front of you, slightly to the left and say, “This is what
 happens to me.” Now look at each of those cards in turn. Quickly ask yourself what
 each one means individually at face value. What is the very first thing that pops into
 your mind? Spend no more than three or four seconds analyzing each card. Just go with
 what you see on the card “right now.” Explain it in three short sentences or less (less is
 better here) to your friend if you have one nearby. Otherwise, quietly phrase it to
 yourself. Don’t just feel it. Physically say it in words as if you were reading a story out
 loud to someone. Now flip another two cards in the same fashion and do the same with
 them as well. Work your way through your stack of cards, “good” or “bad.” Whatever
 happens to you or your friend (in the cards), it is all hypothetical, so you are both safe
 from harm. Otherwise, it would be a very busy day for you both.
 The first point of this exercise is to develop your spot analysis and compare and
 contrast abilities with each card in your deck, no matter what order it comes in relation
 to any other card. It is far too easy to get lost in one particular card when reading the
 Tarot, especially one of the major cards,and most especially when that card is Death,
 orThe Hanged Man. Repeat after me, kiddies: No one card is more important than
 another. Every card you draw has its place and is an important part of your reading,
 just as every breath you draw is necessary to life. You can’t simply skip a breath. Sooner
 or later you will have to take it. Don’t get in the habit of favoring one card over another
 in a reading.
 The second point of this exercise is to remove any apprehension you have about drawing
 any card of your deck. Leave all of that drama to cheesy horror movies. When you draw
 The Devil, you may be describing an evil boss, an evil landlord, a cheesy movie role you
 are hoping to get because it pays well, or even a new flavor of Ben and Jerry’s ice cream.
 (“El Diablo! With habaneros, jalapeños, chocolate fudge, and ‘extra-dark’ chocolate!”
 Hey! —We thought of it first!) Our examples are below. As these are all hypothetical, we
 are not concerned with what impressions we come up with. Neither should you. This is
 practice. You will learn a lot by doing this on a regular basis, and it will make your
 readings infinitely better. Try to avoid coming up with the same exact meaning every
 time you flip a certain card. Have fun creating variations and looking for unique ways
 of seeing each card. That is what practice is for. It is the only time when you are
 completely in control of your world.
------ This is what happens to me ------
 My cheap boss refuses to give me a raise. I don’t like him anyway.------ This is what happens to you ------
 You have so much money you have to stop and think on where to
 invest it.
------ This is what happens to me ------
 I got dumped? Why do I get all the BAD cards?------ This is what happens to you ------
 Oh sure, that’s probably my ex you are going out with I’ll bet.
------ This is what happens to me ------
 I win the lottery! Woo hoo!
 In your face “ex-boss!”------ This is what happens to you ------
 Your mother-in-law comes to live with you. She drives you crazy.
 (Hee hee! I won the lottery!)
------ This is what happens to me ------
 Hey! Look at me! My boss shows up with HIS boss and I end up
 getting the raise!------ This is what happens to you ------
 Meanwhile you get a job in the mailroom.
------ This is what happens to me ------
 Everyone ends up fighting at my birthday party.------ This is what happens to you ------
 You get married and have kids and a happy life. Why do YOU get all
 the good cards?
Exercise Two - Visual Examples
 This really is a fun exercise between good friends who share a love for the Tarot. Just for
 fun, we decided to record one of our own practice sessions. Here is what happened:
 (We have included the commentary and reactions that went along with our little game.)
------ This is what happens to me ------
 Oooh!
 Hot date!
 Don’t wait up!------ This is what happens to you ------
 Uh oh... you died. So sorry. Game over.
 But what about my hot date?!!
 (Nancy) Hey! No fair! We just started! I want a hot date! Let’s trade
 cards!
(Dusty) You know that’s not how the game of life is played! Now be
 quiet! You’re dead now and I happen to have a date!
 ...You know, since you’re dead and all, you wouldn’t mind if I
 borrowed your new car for the night.
 (Nancy) But!
 (Dusty) Shh! Dead people don’t talk!
 I wanna see how my date turns out!
 (Nancy) Dead people can so too talk! Haven’t you been paying ANY
 attention to horror movies lately?
 (Dusty) Oh sure, if you are a zombie!
 (Nancy) Zombies can’t talk.
 (Dusty) That’s it! You’re a zombie! Now shh!
------ This is what happens to me ------
 Oh my god! We couldn’t get in the club?
 (Nancy) Ha ha! You should have called ahead and made
 reservations! Remind me not to go on a date with you!
 (Dusty) Shh ghostie! can get in any time I like!------ This is what happens to you ------
 Hey! How’d you get so rich?
(Nancy) I save my money, unlike some people I know.
 (Dusty) Well as you can see, I’m poor. Can I borrow some money? I
 want to buy that club and then I can get in any time I like!
 (Nancy) Um... let’s see... If I’m dead, how exactly do I give you a
 loan?
 (Dusty) Fine. You didn’t “die,” it was a silly Halloween costume you
 wore to scare everyone. Now can I have some money to buy that
 club so I can get in any time?
 (Nancy) Yaaay! I’m rich! First you have to kiss my ring peasant.
------ This is what happens to me ------
 Oh great! I’m in jail now. It’s your fault. If you would never have
 died in the first place, my date would have gone a lot better. Now
 what am I going to do?
 (Nancy) Never mind that! Look at the card I got!------ This is what happens to you ------
 (Nancy) Ooh, look! Everyone loves me now that I am rich! Let’s see...
 I think I will move to Malibu, and then I want a horse ranch, and a
 jet, and...
(Dusty) I don’t like this game any more. Let’s play something else...
 something fun.
 (Nancy) Shh! You’re /in jail! “You have the right to remain silent!”
 Ha ha ha! I will come visit you when I run out of money to spend.
 Now about that jet, I’m thinking something blue...
 The point of this exercise is to have fun trading situations with a friend (or a
 fellow student). The message of the cards is not that something is
 happening, but that something is happening to someone. By taking turns
 witnessing events from an objective point of view (this happens to you) and a
 subjective one (Hey! This is happening to me!), you build up an
 understanding of the effects of actions and circumstances revealed by the
 cards rather than seeing them in a sterile “theoretical”
 environment. Readings become more real when they happen to you, or to
 someone you care about. This personalization of meaning and the resultant
 consideration of the consequences (albeit playfully) will give your future
 readings a far more profound depth of clarity and compassion that your
 clients will truly appreciate.
Exercise Three - “Exactly what do you two have in common
 anyway?”
 Please get out your study deck. Shuffle your deck thoroughly. Take the top two cards
 from your deck and place them on the table in front of you, or select two cards randomly
 from the deck. Don’t put a lot of effort into this, because you will be doing a lot of this,
 and there is no sense in complicating the parts of this exercise that are supportive rather
 than instructive. Just grab two random cards.
 Once you have done that, look at card one, and tie it to card two. They are still two
 individual cards, but do they have anything in common that jumps out at you?
 Please keep this part simple. If you see a connection, great! If not, simply flip two more
 cards. Spend no more than three or four seconds glancing at each pair of cards. In any
 case, you will have probably already spotted some similarities in exercise two. Later you
 will combine this exercise with others, so don’t add a lot of stress to your life right now
 trying to get everything “perfect.”
 Below are some visual examples to help you understand the process. Please note that
 any examples we show you are simply that: examples. You can use them as your own if
 you like them, but do not allow our interpretation to limit your own ideas as to how
 cards can relate to each other. Later on we will go into blending card energies. Right now
 we are just looking for connections and similarities between any two cards you happen
 to come across.
Hmm... “Okay class, here we see the correct way to carry a heavy load, and the wrong
 way. This is essential to a healthy back.”
To us, these two cards looks like two people exchanging gifts, although it could also be a
 doctor handing a man a glass of medicine, and in the second picture someone is buying a
 gift basket of flowers. The commonality could be people buying things, or maybe a hospital.
This presents a few interesting options for interpretation. On the left we have the “master”
 and on the right we have the “apprentice.” Or perhaps it is that on the left we have people
 interrupting your work to complain or ask questions, but on the right you get to work
 happily without people nagging you. Or perhaps it is creating your art in public versus
 privately in your studio.
You know... neither one of them look very happy right now. Perhaps we should do this later.
Exercise Four - From here to there
 Shuffle your study deck thoroughly. Take the top two cards from your deck and place
 them on the table in front of you, or select two cards randomly from the deck. Don’t put
 a lot of effort into this, because you will be doing a lot of this, and there is no sense in
 complicating the parts of this exercise that are supportive rather than instructive. Just
 grab two random cards.
 Once you have done that, look at card one, and tie it to card two. How would you get
 from card one to card two? If you are having any trouble finding a connection
 between these two cards within a few seconds, simply flip two new cards on top of these
 two and forget these cards completely. This is another exercise we would like you to
 keep doing over the years. It is quick, easy, and keeps you sharp. You will also find over
 time that this is the basis of powerful magic. Examples below:
Here we have a “love triangle” (3 of Swords) leading to (the 9 of Swords) someone sleeping
 alone in bed and being very unhappy about it. Perhaps someone cheated on their spouse,
 and this led to much unhappiness.
 Uh oh... It looks like everyone was having a good time at the party, drinking and dancing (3
 of Cups), and then someone had too much to drink and one thing leads to another and a
 fight breaks out(5 of Wands).
Hey! Look at this! It looks like our friend “Michelangelo” (the apprentice in the 8 of Coins)
 worked his tail off and got a commission (3 of Coins) to do the Sistine Chapel. (If only we
 were so lucky...) This is a classic example of progressing from one card (or situation) to
 another. If the cards were 3, then 8 (instead of the 8 then the 3 above) it could be being
 fired from a great job and back to breaking rocks at the quarry. Oh well...
“So, like, there I was dude, and all these guys were like totally ready to pound on me, but I
 was like ‘C’mon cowards! I’ll fight you all!’ But then like, the cops showed up and chased
 them away. It’s too bad. I would have beat them all to a pulp you know.”
Exercise Five - There and back again
 This is a revisiting of exercise four. The purpose of having you extend the previous
 exercises from two cards to three, is to prepare you for full readings where you will have
 to tie the energy and meaning of many cards together, blending, coordinating,
 prioritizing, sorting, and spotting all sorts of patterns from all points of the spread.
 Working with three cards will help you expand your awareness simultaneously to four,
 five, even ten cards all impacting each other without having to actually practice regularly
 with cards of these multiples. Once you are comfortable working with three cards, you
 will have the skill set to enhance and expand card meanings as needed in your readings.
 With three cards we now introduce the problem of order. Going from one card to
 another is easy enough, but three cards calls into question whether to read left to right
 (Western), right to left (Eastern), or is the center card “flanked” by two supporting
 cards? Which card is dominant?
 This is something you will have to decide for yourself when you practice, as well as when
 you “cast spreads” (do readings). This is the part of the Tarot where you make the rules,
 and it applies to students as well as “masters.” You have to know in advance how you
 read your cards. If you prefer to read right to left, then by all means read right to left, or
 upside-down or however you like. Just don’t go into a reading not knowing how you
 want to lay your cards down, and refrain from changing the rules in the middle of a
 reading. Very rarely, and this will happen later, when you are very skilled with the Tarot,
 you will see cards that need to be read obliquely, or even “re-placed,” but don’t you dare
 start worrying about that until you have been reading cards for several years. It is better
 to scoop up the entire spread and start fresh than it is to try to guess why the cards
 “aren’t making sense.”
 So... grab your “minor” Arcana and flip three cards over, one at a time, so you know the
 order they appeared in. Then read them “left to right” chronologically (this happens, and
 then this other thing happens, and then this last thing happens). Without flipping
 new cards, reread them, this time “right to left” chronologically (this happens, and
 then this other thing happens, and then this last thing happens). Then flip three new
 cards.
 We will worry about “aspecting,” “supporting,” and “dominant” cards in a bit.
 Please keep in mind that in our practice exercises these three cards will appear
 together, where in your actual readings, “aspecting cards” (which we will deal with next)
 will appear in chronological order (past, present, future), they will appear in linear
 order (card 2, card 3, card 4... no matter what each card “position” means in the spread
you are casting), and in no order at all, but will point to, affect, and even change the
 meaning of other cards. But for now let’s keep things nice and simple.
 Visual examples appear on the next page.
Exercise Five - Visual Examples
 Here are a few examples based on what we might see. Take these only as examples. First
 we identify each card (1), then we see if we can see an easy connection or similarity (2),
 then we see if we can make a three-card story about them. For this example we are
 reading “left to right” only. Here we go. Wish us luck!
 (1) A mausoleum, a miser, someone who is completely closed off.
 (2) They are all 4’s (completely by accident, we promise). They are all
 sitting or resting (especially the dead guy). No one is doing
 anything. There’s our connection.
 (3) “So your rich uncle died (sorry) and you went to his funeral, but
 you were cut out of the will, and that made you very unhappy.”
Another tough one...
 (1) A message, a date, not happy with the result of your labors.
 [oh, this is going to be too easy]
 (2) Commonalities: we can’t see any—but...
 (3) [P. Wands] You call up a girl and ask her out on a date. She says
 yes. [2 Cups] You two go out and you buy her a drink (probably at a
 bar—how original and “romantic”). [7 Coins] The date doesn’t go
 very well. You two don’t hit it off at all.
 Our advice: Next time be more creative. Plan ahead and make it
 an interesting date. You might do better for your efforts.
 (1) A raise, your wife, emotional distress.
(2) Nothing at the moment.
 (3) “You get the promotion at work you have been fighting for, and
 that comes with a bump in pay. But your boss makes you work late to
 justify the extra money he is ‘giving you,’ which puts a strain on your
 relationship. Your wife misses you, and while she is happy for you,
 she wishes you two had more time together.”
 We hope you can see how we reached our conclusions in the examples above.
 The meanings we assigned each card came from a combination of “traditional
 interpretations,” as well as our personal impressions of each card—at the
 moment we flipped them.
 (These were not “staged” examples.)
Exercise Six - Birds of a feather
 This is simply a three-card version of exercise three.Adding a third (or even fourth) card
 often makes it easier to spot commonalities among the cards in question, but it can also
 skew your initial feelings on the cards you are interpreting. For this exercise, we would
 like you to view all cards as equal in importance, and simply look to find any similarities
 or a “common thread.” Same rules apply: Toss the “major” Arcana aside for now and
 shuffle your study deck,flipping all three cards at once. Spend no more than ten seconds
 scanning any set you flip. State out loud what you see. Our examples are below:
 Commonalities . . . They all have colors . . . Who flipped these stupid
 cards anyway? 
They are all results cards. Notice how everything pictured above is a
 result of previous action. (Wow, that was hard!) If these came up in a
 “3-card spread” we would say first that the answer is
 stronglyaffected by the past. 
A river runs through two cards, two are cups; two “could” involve
 mourning. We are just looking for commonalities here. Leave the
 interpretations for the following exercises. No stress, right?
Hmmm... more colors... that’s a start isn’t it? (grr...)
 Okay, we’re stumped. Rather than sit here all day and try to salvage
 our egos (and our reputations) we are going to simply give up and
 move on. Not all cards will share easy-to-find commonalities. This in
 itself is a lesson in knowing when to let go and move on to more
 pressing areas of the reading you are giving (or shuffle more
 thoroughly next time while focusing on the question at hand).
 Okay, so two 5’s here and a Queen... Sky color means nothing as
 there is no “weather” in the Tarot to speak of. Sure, a few cards have
 a cloud here or there, or a few drops of rain, but for the most part,
 weather symbolism was overlooked by the “experts” who added the
 kabbalah, numerology, astrology, color meanings, and chakras. (You
 could draw your own weather in if you like, though.
But they all “happen outdoors” (if you discount the fact that ALL of
 the court cards are outdoors). And notice that every one of the people
 in these cards are intent on something. None are inactive. They
 are all going somewhere, or engaged in something. Also, there are no
 shadows in any of these cards. Perhaps they are all vampires.
 Something to think about...
Exercise Seven Hey! - What does THIS card mean?
 Aspecting cards
 So far we have concentrated on each card having a meaning of its own, only
 toying gently with the idea of card relationships, and mostly in a linear form (going from
 this to that). We’re not ready to blend card energies just yet, but we do want to look at
 how a card can be aspected by another, or a card can be clarified, or defined by another,
 a term we call “opening up a card” to unlock its meaning. We will start with visual
 examples this time, as the concept and the process are both simple and easy to
 understand. You will use these a lot in your readings, most often without even thinking
 much about them.
 Here we have the 9 of Swords that has come up in a reading. Our client has asked about her
 love life, and this card has come up in the past. It says she has been very unhappy. We want
to know why, so we look to other cards already in the spread. Off to the side, in a spot of the
 spread that we interpret as “things that are affecting you” we see the Knight of Wands. Now
 we see that the reason for our client’s misery is an ex-boyfriend, and in this case, the Knight
 looks to be galavanting around “waving his wand at anyone who passes.”
 This is by far not a “traditional interpretation” of the upstanding and heroic nature of
 the Knight of Wands, but this interpretation is what our instinct tells us, and the
 essence of the Tarot is that the cards are merely visual symbols with no more
 magical power than a wine grape. True, they are standardized symbols, loaded with
 undercurrents of inference and subtle meaning you may choose to use or ignore at your
 convenience, but the real power is always in you, not the tool you use to assist you. This
 is true of an artist and a mechanic, and it is true of you. A better wrench won’t make you
 a better mechanic. Either you develop your talent, or you do not; but the quality of your
 tools can only enhance your abilities—they do not do the work for you. This means that
 sometimes the cards will speak to you “at face value,” and at other times they will read
 “by the book,” while still other times they will point you in a direction for you to find the
 answer in alternative ways (like asking the client—whether any of us likes it or not,
 clients sometimes lie, stretch the truth, tell only their side of the story, or
 conveniently omit certain rather important facts).
 This is why we emphasize that practice is more important than book study. Both
 are essential to learning this wonderful skill, but your own interpretations will begin to
 reach amazing accuracy as you hone your instincts and learn to trust your judgment
 as you weigh “what you have been taught” with what feels right deep inside you. It’s kind
 of like a hamburger. Without the bun, it’s really not much of a hamburger, and there’s
 no way to call two slices of plain bread a “hamburger.” Study and practice.
 So back to our example... In this case, the 9 of Swords is aspected by, or clarified by, the
 Knight of Wands from a supportive position. We have a suspicion that this joker was
 making it pretty obvious to everyone (including our client) that he was out to “play,” and
 he validated his ego by showing off what a “man” he was by running around with other
 women, causing our client a lot of suffering. Now we have two options: Wecan verify this
 directly by stating what we see and asking our client if this is the case, or we can open
 the 9 of Swords up for further clarification. Let’s open her up, just to see what happens.
 (We are assuming for the sake of argument that the 9 of Swords is a woman. The
 timeless debate rages on...)
 We are going to draw three cards from the deck to explain the meaning of the 9 of
 Swords. To do this we want to make sure that we draw the right three cards, not just
 three cards at random that make no sense at all. So we are going to shuffle the cards
 (since we have already cast the spread) and while we are shuffling we are going to focus
our own question of what the 9 of Swords entails.
 The three cards we draw from our deck will each individually point to the 9 of Swords,
 just like the caption under a photo in a newspaper explains to the reader exactly what
 they are seeing in the picture. Here’s what we get:
 Here we have our 9 of Swords. We want to know a bit more about it.
 We want to know why our client was upset, and what happened to
 make her unhappy. This is what we will focus on while we are
 shuffling the rest of our cards (the ones not already laid out in the
 spread).
While we are shuffling this card jumped out at us.
 When you are shuffling and a certain card seems to leap out on its own, set it aside
 and give it careful consideration. Occasionally it is simply an accident, but most often
 the card will point to an answer to whatever you were considering while you were
 shuffling. If you can see a connection, you have a priority message on the matter at
 hand. If you happen to see no connection at all, note the card and ignore it for the time
 being. It is far worse to spend time and energy superstitiously hunting down omens than
 it is to miss a clue here or there occasionally.
 In this particular case, the 6 of Cups flipped out of the deck and landed face up on the
 spread while we were shuffling. It didn’t slide, or fall out. It actually catapulted a few
 inches into the air and fluttered down on to the cards we had already laid out. The 6 of
 Cups “traditionally” refers to a gift, or a reunion among old friends. In the picture a boy
 is giving a girl a cup filled with flowers.
 To us, this new twist looks a little too much like the “ex” is slipping his “ex” (previous to
 our client) a little of his fertility, or nature’s bounty. We may be completely off base here,
 but this is what we see. As this happens to support our existing theories, we will place
 this card below the 9 of Swords and ask for two more cards to further extrapolate the
meaning of our client’s previous emotional despair. We continue shuffling and draw two
 cards off the top of the deck when we feel the moment is right.
 Here’s what comes up next:
 dissatisfied with what you have created.
feeling trapped
 So putting it all together, here is what it looks like in our spread. We have the 9 of
 Swords that we asked about, and the 6 of Cups flew out, so we will put that one in the
 center, since it seems to have a priority, and then we have the 7 of Coins, and finally the
 8 of Swords. Please note that we have not shown any other cards of the original spread
 only because they do not affect this exercise.
Here’s our take on it. Yours may be different. Our client was miserable because her
 boyfriend (now “ex”) was romantically involved with an “ex” of his. He was unsatisfied
 with their relationship, or he felt certain things left undone in his past relationship.
 Either way, he felt trapped, and decided to validate his ego by showing off how free he
 was in public (back to the Knight of Wands), and by reuniting with his ex-girlfriend.
 Now we have a wealth of information that makes the reasons for our client’s
 unhappiness abundantly clear. This allows us to see what baggage she is dragging along
 behind her into any new relationship. This, in turn, helps us give her better advice.
The process of “opening up a card”
 Now that you have an understanding of the basic process, here’s the exercise we would
 like you to do. Draw a card from the deck of your choosing. Once again we are still
 leaving the “major” Arcana off to the side to make this easier to grasp and retain. The
 process is the same with the “major” Arcana as it is with the “minor” Arcana, but the
 “majors” are so over-hyped and static that at this point their inclusion would only serve
 to make the learning process more complicated, so please bear with us.
 Once you have a card that you like, simply place it before you. Look at that card and
 decide to yourself what it could imply. Focus on that particular meaning and start
 shuffling your deck, while asking what your interpretation of that card means. How
 could that be expanded, or what is hiding behind that card? All you are looking to do
 is to draw three cards that individually relate to the card you chose. We will do a few
 examples with you, just to make sure that you have this concept down. Be sure to do this
 exercise occasionally until you have complete confidence in your abilities.
 As a side note: When “opening up a card,” there are various methods professional
 readers subscribe to. Do what works for you. Here are a few popular variations.
 1. Draw one card. This is a “clarification card.”
 2. Draw three cards off of the deck without shuffling.
 3. Draw three cards off of the deck after shuffling until you are content.
 4. Draw three cards while shuffling, one at a time.
 5. Take the card out of the original spread and cast a whole new spread based on
 that card alone, to see what that card means.
 Our examples appear on the following pages.
“Opening up a card” Visual Examples
 In this example our initial card is the 5 of Cups (another joyous card).
 We want to know why anyone could possibly be unhappy. So we
 drew a few cards to see what would come up. Here’s what we got:
 The 4 of Wands generally indicates the stability of plans realized.
 People are dancing and having a good time at a feast in an estate.
 Seems like a happy enough card... No luck here so far.
Next we drew the 9 of Wands. This guy looks pretty weary, like he
 has been on guard duty too long. Still not a lot of help, but at least it
 fits in with “Mr. I’m unhappy because three of my cups are knocked
 over, even though there are two left.” (Not that we see any reason to
 be happy just because 40% of anything you value was saved from
 destruction. You definitely could be happy if 100% of your “stuff”
 was saved from destruction.) But the point so far is that the 9 of
 Wands and the 5 of Cups seem to go well together, since misery loves
 company.
 Then we drew the 2 of Coins. He is juggling his finances (or playing
 with his money, which is no way to treat it). We know from personal
 experience how “juggling your finances” can be very stressful. It’s
 hard to think clearly or plan out your life and passions when you are
constantly under the pressure of not having enough money to get by.
 So there we have it. Three cards, two “kind of” help, but that happy home just doesn’t fit.
 So we stare at the cards for a bit and suddenly it hits us. Of course it fits! This guy is
 unhappy (3 down, 2 up means he has something good that is also a stone around his
 neck). He bought his “happy home” (4 of Wands) during a time when loan interest rates
 were low. But he bought “too much house” for himself (this is actually a common
 mistake) and now the interest rates on his adjustable mortgage have gone up. Suddenly
 his house payments (the amount he has to pay the bank every month) have gone
 through the roof (please pardon the pun) and he is scrambling to keep up. He is
 constantly worried about this (9 of Wands), and feels lethargic from all of the stress. No
 wonder he’s unhappy!
 But don’t think you are getting off that easy...
 Oh no, my friend... Now it is your turn to look at the cards above and decide why “Mr.
 Grumpy-face” (5 of Cups) is unhappy. You have three opening cards to clarify his
 disillusionment with his fate. The answer lies between the 4 of Wands, the 9 of Wands,
 and the 2 of Coins. We may not have the right answer at all. So, without causing yourself
 too much stress, please draw your cards out and look at them as we have laid them out
 above. What do you get from the clarification cards? What possible answers look right
 to you? If nothing comes to you right this moment, please remember to come back to it
 later, or set the cards out and glance at them from time to time until you have an answer
 you like.
 Another example
 Our client has come to us to ask about her new boss. She likes working for the company,
 but this guy just rubs her the wrong way. She wants to know if “he hates her” because he
 is extremely impatient, commanding, pushy, rude, and sometimes downright mean.
 Instead of tossing out a spread, we first see what we can find out about this man by
 using our intuitive connection with our cards. Here’s what we get:
After asking our client to clarify her question and her problem, we get a better picture of
 her boss. The King of Coins really seems to sum him up. So we use that card to represent
 him. We pick the King of Coins and say to ourselves, “This is her boss. This card signifies
 the man she is asking about.” Once we have that image firmly in place mentally, we ask
 about him: who he is, what is his personal motivation in the workplace, especially in
 respect to our client? Then we draw our three cards.
 The Knight of Swords indicates a hyper-aggressive nature, while the6 of Wands shows
 us someone who is used to getting his way and being praised for it (this guy probably
 has a whole crew of sycophants or “yes” men). The Ace of Swords shows victory. This
 might be a good indication, but we didn’t ask how she should deal with her boss, or what
 was going to happen. In our question we asked only about the man she works for. When
 you compare the smugness of the King of Coins with the rest of the cards it looks to us
 like this guy has an “aggressive leadership style” (he’s a real jerk), and he finds that
intimidation works for him. Looks like someone read that old book Winning Through
 Intimidation and took it as gospel. He constantly reinforces his beliefs with books
 and seminars on “aggressive leadership” or the opinion of other executives who support
 that notion (and validate his position on the matter). The Knight shows us his inner
 aggression. The 6 shows us everyone backing down from confrontation—even joining in
 his parade of dominance to keep their jobs, and the Ace shows us that it works for him.
 No one is willing to stand up to him (or maybe he fires anyone who does). So we make
 our client a nice cup of cocoa and tell her, “It’s not you honey—it’s him,” because it really
 is after all.
 Okay, so now it’s your turn again...
 How does your opinion differ from ours? Where did we go wrong? Assuming her boss is
 the King of Coins, what do the clarification cards reveal about him? What do you see? If
 you find our wisdom infinite and unquestionable (or if you just happen to be too lazy at
 the moment to stress yourself over finding alternate meanings, and that is just as well),
 please feel free to draw out the King of Coins from your own deck and repeat what we
 did above (shuffle and ask about “her boss”) and draw three clarification cards to “open
 him up” and get your own answers about this man. Either way, please do spend time on
 this exercise. This practice will help you immeasurably in the times (and readings) to
 come.
 One more example
 A gentleman in an expensive suit comes in to see us. He says up front that, “he doesn’t
 believe in all of this voodoo and superstition,” but that he wants a reading anyway. We
 politely reply that we don’t really believe in Santa, but that we still like getting presents
 every year, so since we both seem to operate from a stance of suspended disbelief, we
 would be happy to do a reading for him “just for fun.”
 We ask him what he wants to know about. At first he is evasive and assuming,
 expecting us to know why he is here. Before tossing him out on the street for
 wasting our time, we take a deep, cleansing breath, smile, and we explain very carefully
 (as if to a child) that if we are to give him a valid answer, we must know what his
 question is. Five minutes later he reveals that he has a business plan and he wants us
 to tell him how wonderful it is, how clever he is for coming up with it, and how it will
 make him millions of dollars. Of course, he doesn’t say this as directly and forthright as
 that, but we know what he wants to hear, so we tell him:
“Sir, it looks like your plan (we have selected the 2 of Wands above to represent his
 plan and act of planning) will be facing some challenges (7 of Wands) when you
 announce it to the world (Page of Wands). Perhaps there is more competition than you
 realize, or someone may claim that they had the idea first and force litigation on the
 matter. It looks to us like money will be very tight (4 of Coins). Perhaps this plan needs
 to be worked over a bit, or reviewed by one of your peers. I see resistance to getting
 funded (this is our personal take on all three cards together as an end result).”
 The gentleman stands up, calls us charlatans, says he refuses to pay (we are only a few
 minutes in so far, so that is really not an issue, although he doesn’t have to be so abusive
 about it). Before he can storm out, we casually ask him if he has shown his plan to
 anyone yet, and what their opinion of it is. He snarls and says that his “no-good boss
 said it was weak,” and that his wife laughed at his idea. “Imagine that! That insolent
harpy actually laughed at the very idea!” he protests before tossing five dollars on the
 table and stomps out. We don’t know whether to laugh or feel sorry for the poor guy.
 Oh you had to know this was coming...
 So, wise and enlightened oracle of the East (of somewhere, after all everywhere is east of
 some place or another). What do your sources tell you? (And no cheating by using a
 Magic 8-Ball!tm) Take your time considering this man’s dilemma: He has a plan and he
 wants you to reassure him that he will “show them.” He will show them all! How do you
 handle clients who expect you to know everything?
 “You’re the psychic—you should know why I am here!” The first time you hear that you
 may shriek with laughter, but the twenty-seventh time you may have a baseball bat
 ready for the occasion (we do not recommend violence when dealing with psychically
 abusive querents—that is “those who come for a reading”). How would you help a
 querent (paying or “friend”—as a psychic you will find that you have a lot of “friends”
 who believe you should read for them at no charge—try to at least get a $5 coffee and
 some decent chocolate out of the deal if you can) when they see things only as they want
 them to be—and they believe that the entire world is wrong? How would you turn
 lemons into lemonade?
 There are no answers to fill in here, only thoughts to consider before these things
 happen to you. Ask your teacher (if you are fortunate enough to have one) about various
 situations. Spend some time thinking about how you want to be seen as a reader. What
 is the image you want to project?
Exercise Eight - One plus one equals what?
 Blending two card meanings into a new “central meaning”
 This exercise is easy to grasp, but it will be difficult to figure out at times. That’s
 okay. It happens to all of us. Anyone who says different is selling you something.
 Ultimately, however, this is one of the most important skills you will develop in reading
 the Tarot (or palms, or astrology, or manifesting any of your desires through
 affirmations, visualization, and the “Laws of Attraction and Repulsion,”* for that
 matter). Fortunately, you have been well prepared for this in the previous exercises, so
 you should get the hang of this so easily you will be amazed.
 We will be blending the meanings of two cards to create a third meaning, a new
 meaning, one that is applicable to your situation. The exercise itself is easy enough (be
 sure to remove any “major” Arcana cards first): simply shuffle your deck thoroughly and
 draw two cards from the top, and identify their basic meaning. Then compare and
 contrast them, looking for similarities, differences, and combinations. Ask yourself how
 they fit. Ask your guides (faeries, angels, friendly alien entities, et al.) how they fit. Add
 the two cards together, subtract one from the other, or even multiply one by the other.
 Once you have a meaning you like, forget about them and flip two more cards. Work
 your way through the deck. Below are our examples.
So there you are working on your boss’s new project and, of course, he brings along a
 “consultant” who decides that all of your work is “not to standard” (the consultant has to
 earn his fee, so he decides that his input is needed). Now you look incompetent in front of
 your boss, and you have to do all of your work all over again.
 Okay, that’s our take on this. What do you think? (please fill in your answers below)
You marry a wealthy woman. (or) You are a wealthy, independent woman who gives
 generously to charity often. (or) You own a winery and you are hosting a chic wine tasting
 before snooty judges. (Sorry, we are having too much fun. Okay, it’s your turn now.)
 That’s our take on this. What do you think? (please fill in your answers below)
 * Technically, the PROPER term is psychic magnetism, and the whole
 attraction/repulsion thing is a subset of that. See Aphrodite’s Book of Secrets
 to understand the actual processes involved, or enroll in a real mystery
 school if you are interested in learning how to re/create your own destiny,
 and get everything you want from your life.
Exercise Nine - One plus one plus one equals what?
 Blending multiple card meanings into a new “central meaning”
 Same thing as exercise eight, only using three cards instead of two. Additionally, we
 have provided several pages of practice exercises (just after the next few pages) to help
 you sharpen your skills, even if you don’t have your deck with you at the moment.
 These three cards come up in a reading. Combine all three cards into
 one new meaning. This new meaning can be a cause, an effect or
 “end-result,” a situation, a person, or anything you can realistically
 expect to encounter in daily life.
 Hmm... decisions, decisions... someone is giving out money, and is
 that a party going on? Okay, we’re stumped. Got any ideas? There
 are two Cups (cards) so that lends weight, or prominence, or priority
 to the suit of Cups.
 Well, you have a choice: Money or happiness?
 This sounds like a job question—“Job I like, or job that pays well?”—
 or—“I got a Christmas bonus!” (The 6 of Coins.) “I’m going to
 celebrate! What should I buy?”
 Here is an excellent example of “reading cold.” Occasionally you will want (or have) to
 read for a distant situation, one where you have very limited facts and you are trying to
 reconstruct events, or do some detective work. This exercise, as onerous as it is, teaches
 you how to “read cold” so that you can build a picture of events that have transpired, or
events that will transpire in any situation where you just don’t have the facts you need.
 For example, if you wanted to cast a spread for some event in the ancient past, to try to
 glean the details from a sketchy account, or if you wanted to predict an election in the
 future when you have no idea who will be running. Each of these examples are very
 advanced Tarot work, but the skills you are building now will make them much easier.
Exercise Ten - The never-ending story
 This is more of a party game; but if you are comfortable with all of the previous
 exercises, you can do this one alone, anytime, anywhere. It is excellent practice and
 will make your readings infinitely easier (and better, as well). But be forewarned:
 sometimes you will be able to happily breeze through this, and other times it will tax
 your nerves and your imagination to the point of frustration. At those times, it is
 probably better to go do something else. But please do your best to master this game (it
 works best as a 3-4 person game if you have creative, fastthinking friends). It is more
 than worth the frustration it will sometimes put you through. Mastering this will make
 you a very good reader by anyone’s standards.
 Okay, here we go. The object of this easy game is simply to not be the person who gets
 stumped, or cannot continue the story. Shuffle your deck thoroughly. You can use the
 “major” Arcana in this game, but at first we would like you to continue using just the
 “minor” Arcana until you are thoroughly comfortable with them.
 Pick any card to start; or if you are feeling especially brave, just take the first card from
 the deck and flip it over. That is the beginning of your story. If you are playing alone, you
 can hold your deck. If playing with friends (who you trust to touch your cards), it is best
 to leave the deck on the table, and have everyone just flip the top card. It’s a good idea to
 use an old deck, obviously. Alternately, you can hold the deck and flip the cards for
 people, but that may hamper the game’s spontaneity. Use your best judgment. Here is
 an example game.------ (This is the first card flipped) ------
(story) “So, a man was sitting under a tree one day, looking at his
 cups when a hand popped out of a cloud and said ‘drink me’...”
 (you can use a funny voice if it makes your game more fun)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And the man says ‘I’m not going to drink that! It’s poison
 and it will make me die!!’”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... So he jumped up onto his horse and shouted ‘I am going
to get a Diet Pepsi!’”
 (... and suddenly one of our narrators leaps off of the couch and runs
 to the kitchen so she will be back in time for her next turn)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And the nice lady brought back one for her best friend
 too!”
 (technically this borders on extortion and is not an official part of the
 game; but if you can tie in the card meaning to a free Diet Pepsi in
 the course of the game, then more power to you)------ (flip a new card) ------
(story) “... And when he got back there was a party going on, with
 food and dancing.”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... But he forgot to bring along his invitation, and he had to
 go home and get it.”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
(story) “... And when he gets home his mom says, ‘Oh, I’m glad you’re
 home dear. Since we’re all out of that soda you are always drinking, I
 want you to pick some grapes and make me some of that delicious
 wine I like so much.”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And he was very unhappy, because all he could think
 about were the girls dancing at the party. Now he would never meet
 any of them.”
 (and then...)
------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And so he quietly tiptoed out of the house to go back to the
 party, and he took his juggling swords along to impress the girls he
 was hoping to meet there.”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... But when he got back to the party everyone had already
 gone home. All that was left were empty cups of Diet Pepsi. So he
 decided to go find some fun somewhere else.”
 (and then...)
------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And his father showed up and said (in an authoritative
 voice), ‘Son! Your mother wanted you to make her some wine. You
 are a disgrace, young man. Now get me a Diet Pepsi or you will be
 grounded forever!’”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And so he was grounded for a very long time, because he
 didn’t even like Diet Pepsi. But he saved up a lot of money since he
couldn’t spend it on anything.”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And one day he jumped back on his horse and said,
 ‘That’s it! I’m leaving forever! I am going to dress like a circus clown
 and be a rock star!”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
(story) “... And then he met the woman of his dreams, and she said,
 ‘Drink this!’ and this time he did!”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... And he got signed by a big record company who liked his
 band ‘Circus Clown Rockstars’ and they gave him a HUGE advance.!”
 (and then...)------ (flip a new card) ------
 (story) “... But the cup that the girl of his dreams gave him was filled
with poison, and he died. The end!!”
 (no—and then...)
 Well, that wasn’t a very happy ending. Sometimes the cards just go like that. It wasn’t
 the best story, anyway; but it should serve to show you the importance of being able to
 string cards together and see how individual cards can mean anything that is “correct” to
 the reading, whether it is the “traditional meaning,” or something at “face value,” or
 even something that you noticed about the card but you just know that it’s appropriate
 for this particular reading.
 We hope that you will play the never-ending story on at least a semi-regular basis while
 you are learning the Tarot. It is an easy way to get practice and the story is never the
 same twice. Each time you go through your deck you will come up with new variations of
 meanings, and with each variation you will understand your deck a little better. The
 cards will start to talk to you. Over time you will learn new things about individual cards
 you missed earlier and will never read in any book. These things you learn are just as
 valid as anything set down by Crowley, Levi, Mathers, Agrippa, White, Case, or
 Regardie.
 As an example, one of our students once vehemently argued with us
 that the man in the 7 of Swords was “dancing.” As much as that idea
 shocked us, we stopped and thought about it, and found that there
 really are no images of a man dancing in the Tarot, so why not?
 (Well, there is that guy in the 2 of Coins but he seems preoccupied, so
 this might be two styles of dancing.)
Another example is found in either the 9 of Coins or the 10 of Coins. In both of these images we see animal lovers.
 The woman has a connection with birds, and the old man in the 10 has a strong affection for his dogs. These
 ancillary tidbits of information will usually not have much meaning in most readings, and suddenly you will come
 across a reading where this is all that matters about that particular card. This is why you want to allow your cards
 to talk to you, rather than simply memorizing 78 versions of what someone else decided that your cards should
 mean “each and every time you read them, without fail.” Nothing can replace book knowledge, and your scholarly
 studies are of paramount importance, but please develop your intuitive understanding of your deck as well.
Exercise Eleven - Something to look at
 This is not so much of an exercise as it is homework designed to drive you crazy. Take
 one of your older decks and tape it up to the wall like a multiplication table. It will take
 up a good three to four feet across, and two to three feet down, unless you have one of
 the “tiny” decks. Tape it up where you can see it often, but somewhere you can leave it
 taped up for a long time. We recommend starting from Ace and going across all of the
 way to King (although you can mount them vertically if you like, as well) starting with
 the suit of Wands, then Cups, Swords, and finally Coins. Tuck the “major” Arcana
 afterwards in two rows of eleven cards each, or as you like.
 The point of this exercise is to be able to see the natural progression of the suits (Ace
 through 10) and compare the various suits. This allows you to study the Tarot at your
 convenience, glancing at all of the 3’s for example, or the 7’s... Take time often to look
 for the similarities of the numbers in the various suits, as well as the blatant
 inconsistencies. Don’t just believe a book that tells you that, “each 8 is exactly the same
 and is a representation of the element the suit embodies,” or any such nonsense. Take a
 look at your cards for yourself and see what comes to you.
 The point of taping up a deck is to remove the pressure on you to cram all of this
 information into your head at once. Your life with the Tarot should become as intuitive
 and natural as eating or breathing. At times you will hunger for your cards, and at other
 times you will glance at them only in passing. This is how you truly and deeply learn to
 become comfortable and immersed in your understanding of the cards and their
 symbology. This will also start to subconsciously encourage you to one day perhaps
 doodle out your own images, ones that you can bond with more closely.
 In any case, ideas will come to you easily and often when you have your Tarot deck
 mounted for spot analysis. You will also have 78 extremely useful images handy for your
 visualization needs. The Tarot makes a great meditation aid, whether you need to
 manifest some positive change in your life, or you are seeking some deeper wisdom. We
 have created a set of “Cheat Sheets” in Section Three that are written versions you can
 glance over if you like.
Okay, let’s review:
 Before you continue, you should have practiced each of the previous exercises, and
 developed an initial understanding of your study deck. Even if you had to cheat a bit (by
 looking up “our” meanings in the back of the book—and that’s okay too), you should be
 able to pull any card from your study deck and be able to say, “When this card comes up
 in a reading it makes me think of.” It is always okay to look up the meaning of any card
 whenever you want, but we don’t want you to become reliant on any book to tell you
 what this or that card means. Ultimately your understanding of your deck will be the
 deciding factor on how good you are and how much fun you have reading the Tarot.
 Great Tarot readers know how to listen to their inner voices, and know when the
 “traditional meaning” applies, and when it does not. The fastest and easiest way to
 develop your inner voice is to start seeing what the cards say to you from the very
 beginning, and use the “traditional meanings” as guides rather than hard, fast rules.
 Otherwise, you will just end up like that lady in the 8 of Swords.
 So, we would like you to keep practicing the exercises. These will turn you into
 a very good Tarot reader very fast, but now that you have a rudimentary feel for your
 “minor” Arcana, we want you to add your “major” Arcana to your study deck
 to make it your practice deck (which is the same deck you will be reading for your
 friends and clients eventually). The only difference is that when you see a “major”
 Arcana card, it may seem a bit stilted, authoritative, static, or even overwhelmingly
 vague at first in comparison to your familiar “minor” Arcana. Don’t hesitate to look in
 the back of the book and review what we have to say on any particular card whenever
 you get stuck or desire some “extra information” or verification of what you already
 know or feel.
 Now that your deck is complete again, do all of the exercises in this book again, and use
 your practice deck for all kinds of readings and exercises. Try out new ideas and fun
 ways of shuffling and spreading your cards. This is “you” time, and it does not belong to
 your friends or your clients. You have to answer to no one (but yourself). This is when
 you get to experiment and play, and no one can (or will) judge you. Most of all, this is
 where you develop a deep working relationship with your cards (off stage) so that when
 you do go “on stage” and give a reading to a friend or a stranger, you will be confident
 and relaxed, knowing how your cards “talk to you” even if your “clients” don’t want to
 hear the actual truth that the cards want to impart. Sometimes people will come to
 you and expect you to tell them exactly what they already believe. By
 practicing regularly with the exercises we have laid out for you, and trying out various
 spreads (to see which ones you like the best), you are preparing yourself for any
 occasion.
The next set of exercises is meant to help you sharpen your skills thoroughly by looking
 at events from a completely new perspective. If you can (at some point) successfully
 complete the following exercises you will be on your way to developing the ability to
 read events from the distant past and even the future with great accuracy. If you have
 any questions that you simply cannot find answers to in this book or through your
 teacher, you are always welcome to hop online to our forums and ask anyone there for
 advice or suggestions.
Really Advanced Exercises...
 For no other reason than the pleasant fact that we were born with shriveled up coal
black raisins for hearts, we have designed this next set of exercises for those of you who
 enjoy a little pain occasionally. We advise anyone with a low tolerance for mental stress
 to please simply pass these few pages by as if they do not exist. (This part will not be on
 the final exam—unless you attend our mystery school.)
 The following exercises will require the use of your personal Tarot deck WITH all of the
 “major” Arcana cards included (choose any particular deck that you are comfortable
 with). These exercises contain no images to reference, no samples, or examples. If you
 choose to test your skill with any of the following, we are assuming that you have
 completed the previous exercises and have a solid grasp of Tarot fundamentals as well as
 a personal relationship with your favorite deck(s). Feel free to redesign any of these
 exercises for your own personal use, and do let us know if you end up conjuring up
 your own sadistic Tarot brain-teasers (as long as they are truly fair and equitable for
 student training). That being said, we hope you enjoy the following:
 1. Pick any three cards from your practice deck to illustrate getting a raise from
 your boss.
 a. Change one card above to turn your boss into a tyrant.
 b. Change any one card above (1a) to make the raise insubstantial or
 irrelevant in its ridiculous smallness.
 c. Change any one card above (1a or 1b) to make that raise a promotion.
 2. Pick any three cards from your practice deck to reflect meeting a new love
 interest, someone who might be a potential spouse one day.
 a. Change one card above to turn that into a date.
 b. Change any one card above (2a) to make that same situation a bad
 date.
 c. Change any one card above (2a or 2b) to make that same situation a
 complete disaster.
 d. Change any one card above to make that justified.
 3. Pick any one card from your practice deck to indicate a bartender.
a. Add one card to give him (or her) a job in an expensive night club, a
 place with a high amount of energy.
 b. Now fire him. Use one card to make it clear that all three cards show
 him being fired from his high-paying job
 c. Now add a fourth card as a follow-up or an “and then...” card showing
 him moving.
 d. Change that fourth card into a follow-up or an“and then...” card
 showing him getting a new job.
 e. Change the fourth card into a follow-up or an “and then...” card
 showing him buying a car.
 f. Change that fourth card and add a fifth card as well,as a follow-up pair
 showing him getting a job on a cruise ship
 g. Remove the fifth card, change the fourth card as a follow-up or an “and
 then...” card showing him going to vocational school.
 h. Change that fourth card again as a follow-up or an “and then...” card
 showing him becoming a priest.
 4. Pick any two cards from your practice deck to designate a student artist.
 a. Add one card above to give the artist her first art opening.
 b. Add one card above (4a) to make the art opening a huge success for the
 artist (lots of people come to see her art, maybe some artwork sells that
 night).
 c. Add another card above (4b) to turn the art opening into an event
 where she gets a huge commission to do art, or she gets signed to a
 fancy New York agency.
 5. Pick any four cards from your practice deck to suggest a healthy, happy
 relationship between a man and a wife.
 a. Change one card above to turn that into an unhappy one.
 b. Change one card above to turn that into an abusive one.
 c. Add one card above (5b) to get help and protection.
d. Add one card above (5c) to finally resolve the situation.
 6. Pick any one card from your practice deck to indicate a lawyer or a judge.
 a. Add one card to make him go on a picnic.
 b. Add another card to make it rain on his picnic.
 c. Add another card to give him a pet (at the rainy picnic). 6d: Now add
 one card that changes the entire meaning of the spread and indicates
 something entirely different, but something that you can justify and
 clearly defend its meaning.
 7. Pick any two cards from your practice deck to denote a single mother.
 a. Add one card above to give her a boyfriend.
 b. Add another card to make him a good boyfriend.
 c. Add another card to make him propose.
 d. Now give her a job she loves. Do this by removing two cards, and
 replacing them with three of your choosing, but none of the ones you
 removed.
 e. Now add two cards: one representing her past(that she is running away
 from, something unpleasant), and the other card shows us what she is
 afraid of.
 f. Now add two more cards: one representing her hopes and dreams (she
 hopes to own a huge house in the country one day), and the other card
 shows us her secret allies that will help her reach her goals.
 g. Open up her “secret allies” card using three new cards to show us who
 or what are her “secret allies” and how they can and will help her reach
 her goals.
 8. Pick any eight cards to show a wealthy house in turmoil. The house patriarch
 has died, leaving a widow (protagonist) who is being manipulated or courted by
 an evil man (villain), while her various children (support characters)
 senselessly squabble over their expected inheritance, while money is slipping
 away.
 a. Add one card above to indicate the villain’s motives.
b. Add two or three cards to “solve” all of her (current) problems.
 c. Take the widow’s card, make it the significator in a new reading and
 give her a new life based on what you now know. Use any spread you
 like, but include her “past” and her concerns.
 9. Using as few cards as possible, please accomplish all of the following:
 a. Pick a card to represent “the Devil.”
 b. Now fire him for doing a lousy job.
 c. Make him wash dishes at a roadside diner.
 d. Now make him sell his soul to the King of Coins.
 e. Show us what he got for his efforts.
 f. Make him fight an angel and lose.
 g. Have Death laugh at him (include “minor” Arcana to complete this
 effect).
 h. Now remove all of the cards except for Death. Using him as a
 significator card in a new reading, have him go to the mall to buy a
 smoothie, but he doesn’t have enough money so he has to beg for
 change. But then he gets money, enjoys his beverage and is very happy.
 Do this in a linear format.
 10. Pick any two cards from your practice deck to denote a college professor. Then,
 using as few cards as possible, please accomplish the following:
 a. Have him quit his job and become a mechanic in a completely new
 country.
 b. Now have his daughter call him up and ask him for money for some
 reason (spread three cards beneath her to show her reasons for
 wanting or needing money).
 c. Have him meet the Pope, and they become fishing buddies.
 d. Lastly, using five more cards, give him a long and healthy life with
 many interesting adventures.
 The above exercises varied from the mundane (experiences you will encounter on any
given day of doing readings for your clients) to the bizarre, which you will also
 encounter if you give enough readings over your lifetime. Most professional psychics
 easily give upwards of ten or even twenty thousand readings over their careers. Very few
 give more than that as the propensity for “psychic burnout” escalates after hearing
 enough people’s problems. Take your time and have fun reading. Perfect your skills over
 time; and when it stops being fun, stop doing it.
Section Three 
SPREADS AND STUFF
Introduction to spreads
 When you want to have a question answered using the Tarot, you will almost always be
 doing “spreads” (versus merely drawing a single card for an answer). A spread is an
 organized way of plopping down a certain number of cards to fit the needs of your
 question. A “traditional spread” is one that has been accepted by a large number of
 people. This does not make it any better than any spread you may design on your own,
 but it does make it more universal and easier to compare notes on. The number of cards
 you use in your spread is entirely a personal choice; but to start with, it is best to try out
 some traditional spreads so that if you have any questions, you can relate your concerns
 to someone who might help. It is far easier to get help posting a note in a forum, or
 asking your teacher, “The Knight of Swords came up in my ‘Hopes and Dreams’ spot of
 the Celtic Cross for my love life...” than it is asking something like, “Hi, um... I designed
 my own spread and the Knight of Swords came up...”
 The nuts and bolts of designing your own spreads are extremely simple actually. Use
 what works. This means that you should practice a lot before you start inventing
 anything too crazy. Many of the traditional spreads will serve you well, and they can
 always be used, even after you have been reading cards for a few decades.
 Before we get into any multi-card spreads that use several cards, we are going to cover
 some basic mini-spreads. These one-, two-, and three-card spreads are viable in their
 own right, but they will also help you in your multi-card spreads by showing you how
 cards interact with each other. They will also help you when you need to draw
 clarification cards in a larger spread. All of the following methods examined are valid
 and will produce solid answers for you if you are truly in tune with your cards.
 However, the true test that only time and practice will impart is knowing exactly what
 spread to toss for any given question. When in doubt, remember Ockham’s razor, or “the
 Law of Parsimony,” meaning here that you shouldn’t complicate a reading by using a lot
 of cards simply because your deck hands you 78 to choose from. Use spreads you are
 comfortable with, and if using a three-card spread will give you enough knowledge to
 decide whether the question warrants a twenty-eight-card spread, then by all means do
 so.
One-card Spreads
 “Pick a card, any card...”
 One-card spreads are not very glamorous, but they are infinitely helpful in almost any
 situation. Here are some of the ways you will probably find yourself using them over the
 next few years:
 1. The first, and most economical, is a simple choice. This works best for matters
 of little or no consequence, and when you want to get in some Tarot practice
 but you are “out and about.” Think of your question and draw a card from the
 deck at random. This method has a few caveats you should know in advance.
 First, you should focus on your question. It does no good—and infinite harm—
 if you get in the habit of drawing cards for answers without seriously (if even
 briefly) considering the question.
 Proceeding without first developing a bond with your cards, you become
 nothing more than a random card generator, and you can expect no more
 reliable answers than a computer program might hand you. You don’t have to
 meditate for hours on end before drawing a card, but take a moment and see
 and feel your question as clearly as you can, or the results you get over time will
 convince you that you have no talent, and that would be a shame.
 So you think of your question and draw a card. Now what? Let’s step back a
 moment (again) and state something of vital importance. Tarot has rules. In
 any spread you must know the basic rules of the spread, meaning that when you
 place a card in a certain “slot,” you already know what that “slot” means. It
 would be impossible to give consistently accurate readings if you simply threw
 cards down and assigned meanings to their locations as you went (at least until
 you have developed your intuitive abilities to near god-like status). But let’s
 leave the fairy tales for another time. When a card comes up, you need to know
 how you will feel and react if it comes up reversed, or if it is a Sword rather than
 a Coin, or a man rather than a woman, a family, or a crowd.
 By knowing these “rules” ahead of time, you take a lot of pressure off of
 yourself. “Oh, It’s the Knight of Swords reversed. I am probably being too
 cautious,” is far more productive and fun than “Oh, it’s a Knight, but he’s
 upside down. Does that mean someone is angry at me?”
 Here are a few things to consider before tossing any cards out, in any situation.
 These are things only you can decide for yourself eventually, although you
might as well know now that there is no shortage of people who will gladly
 make it their duty in life to tell you how you should handle each of these. Rather
 than take an authoritarian approach, we will simply make suggestions based on
 centuries of advice we have learned and found that works. Use what you like,
 discard the rest.
 What to do when a card...
 a. is reversed. Some “experts” give a “traditional meaning” (we have 78 of
 those at the end of this book if you like), while other “experts” will tell
 you to simply rotate the card back to its upright position “as the cards
 are quite capable of expressing themselves if you are skilled enough to
 properly interpret their intent.” We favor reading a reversed card as
 just that. Its meaning is limited, skewed, reversed, or altered in some
 way as to change its “normal” state.
 b. flips out of the deck. Sometimes you will be focused on a question and
 (this usually happens mid-shuffle) a card flips, jumps, or sails out of
 the deck and onto the table, or even across the room towards your cat.
 The “universe” is telling you something, but what is it? Should that
 card be taken as a priority? What if it doesn’t make any sense when you
 look at it? What if it falls out of the deck face down? Personally, we go
 with it, examining the card; and if we can’t make sense of it right away,
 we set it aside and proceed with the reading, keeping an eye on it in
 case it fits in as we know more. After all, accidents do occasionally
 happen, and there is no sense looking too hard for omens when
 working divination, or you will drive yourself crazy.
 c. obviously makes no sense at all. Okay, so you were asking your deck
 whether you should have macaroni and cheese for lunch or spaghetti,
 and The Tower pops out. Does this card mean you will accidentally
 knock the pot off of the stove spilling pasta on the floor? Should you
 ignore that card and pull a different one? Knowing ahead of time what
 you will do “no matter what” before you start any reading and building
 positive habits (with few and rare exceptions) will create a set of basic
 guidelines that make your readings more reliable and less confusing. In
 fact, if you start out doing this early on, it will make the Tarot infinitely
 easier to learn. Don’t worry about “what could be.” Worry about what is
 —right now, and deal with the rest of it as it comes. This will save you
 endless amounts of time and hassle. Once you know what your basic
 personal guidelines are whenever you draw a card “at random” from
 the deck, the next question is simply one of what the card means. You
have your question in mind, and you have an answer. Obviously you
 will have to have a certain set of rules in place to handle simple “yes or
 no” questions.
 2. Next, we have the situation where you are nagged by someone who sees you
 with Tarot cards and assumes that you have the time, skill, and desire to stop
 whatever it is that you are doing and give them deep, profound, and highly
 personal advice that will make their life easier and more fun. You can’t really
 blame anyone who sees you with a deck of Tarot cards for coming up to you and
 asking. Tarot cards are a real conversation starter. But if you are engaged in
 something, or you just don’t feel like doing a full-on reading at the moment, you
 can pull a card for them and explain it. This is a very polite way of brushing
 someone off but still giving them something free, and (hopefully) helpful.
 3. In this particular situation you are in the middle of a reading, and your friend
 or client is talking (and talking...), and you simply think of one particular point
 of their dilemma and casually draw a card while they continue. Some
 professional readers do this all of the time. They encourage their clients to
 explain their concerns, and they draw cards at various points, looking for
 verification, lies, advice, and whatnot. All in all, this is a highly effective method
 once you are comfortable with your deck. You may already have your spread
 cast, or you may be politely listening to them when you do this.
Two-card Spreads
 Two-card spreads are usually drawn as a pair, where both cards contribute to one
 central meaning (rather than two meanings, as in “ this will happen, and then that will
 happen next”). Of course, like every “pair” one finds in life, these will function less like
 “a pair of Aces” in poker, where both Aces are of equal value. In life it all too often seems
 that when two or more people get together to do something, one person works harder
 than the other(s). Tarot cards are no different. Your two-card spread will often have one
 card leaning on, or even defining, the other. The trick is to be attuned enough to see if
 one of the cards is pulling the lion’s share of the meaning, or they seem to balance
 nicely.
 As an example: Your boss assigns you a workload on Wednesday that looks more like a
 small mountain than a “short stack of paperwork I am certain you can whip out by
 Friday afternoon, but it must be done before next Monday.” You are working furiously at
 your task, but Thursday follows Wednesday (as it usually does) and it seems that either
 evil shoemaker elves are adding fresh sheets of paperwork to your load every evening
 after you leave work or the stack has found a way to replicate itself. Either way, it is
 starting to look like your weekend is going to be spent at the office instead of at the
 beach. So you decide to playfully ask your Tarot deck for advice. You decide to draw two
 cards to see what that response is before wasting any more time worrying about work.
 You draw the Knight of Wands and the 8 of Coins. (“Get busy time!”) Wow, thrilling. On
 the bright side, if you bought a UV bulb from the hardware store, you could at least get a
 tan while plowing through all of that paperwork. As long as you have your answer you
 might as well make plans. With the boss going fishing this weekend he will be nowhere
 in sight, so perhaps you can convince your best friend to keep you company and have
 some pizza delivered so the weekend is not a total waste.
 In this particular case, the 8 of Coins bore the brunt of the meaning (work, work, work!)
 while the Knight of Wands indicated a need to draw up and charge right in (after doing
 what you can to seek some support—the Knight of Wands prefers to rally the troops if
 possible, whereas the Knight of Swords just charges in and “asks questions later”).
 True to his nature, however, the Knight of Wands comes through with a surprise visit by
 a coworker who secretly has a crush on you (like that matters as long as he helps!) and
 he spends Saturday afternoon with you and your best friend finishing off the never
ending pile of paperwork, playing music, making funny cartoons of the boss, and
 salvaging your Sunday for the beach.
 Two-card spreads are useful and quick. They clarify information more than a one-card
spread can, but they can occasionally be difficult to decipher if you haven’t concentrated
 properly, or shuffled your deck at all, and you get “random” cards. As noted, one card
 will usually—but not always—be the focus. Time and persistent proper practice
 will reveal all.
Three-card Spreads
 Three-card spreads are a mainstay of Tarot readings, and you will probably “draw three
 cards” more often than just about anything else. Three-card spreads are extremely
 useful and very flexible as well, but they can bring even more confusion when you are
 first starting out. The important thing to remember in the beginning is not to fuss over
 the order the cards come out in—not if you are drawing them as three. For example, the
 basic mechanics are that you could draw three cards off of the top of the deck, draw
 three cards (all together) from the middle of the deck, draw one card at a time from
 various parts of the deck—or draw one card, and then draw “two more.” All of this over
analytical gibberish simply means this: No matter how you choose to draw your cards,
 draw them as three (mental focus), or you are simply drawing a one-card spread
 followed by a two-card spread. Decide beforehand how you will draw them. This is
 something you need to develop into a habit, rather than anything you need to worry
 about. Once in a while you will change how you draw your cards, or circumstances will
 throw cards at you. That is fine. Exceptions are just that: exceptions to the rule. For your
 own reliability (and sanity), simply develop a style that you like and stick with it.
 What you can do with three cards...
 Three cards can be blended, they can indicate several forces independently or working
 together, or they can have one primary card supported by two others. You can assign
 meanings (in advance) to the first, second, and third card to show up. This is a very
 popular method among many readers (past, present future; you, your spouse, what’s in
 between you; physical, mental, emotional; linear (time) spreads—as in “this will happen
 and then this other thing, and then this will be the result; and so on, ad nauseum).
 Here’s what you need to know “right now.” Practice drawing three cards in response to
 serious questions to get the feel of the process. Look for patterns in the cards (two or
 three of the same suit or number, several face cards or “majors,” cards with similar
 meanings such as the 8 of Cups and the 6 of Swords showing up in the same threecard
 spread). Your ability to spot these patterns, combined or similar meanings, and various
 ways cards aspect, support, augment, or clarify each other will quickly develop your skill
 in all of the readings you do.
 Three-card spreads are also great for opening up cards. Opening up a card is simply
 drawing three cards to explain one that is giving you trouble, or is ominous enough for
 you to want more information on that particular card without having to tear down the
 entire massive spread you have laid out just to do a new spread on that card.
 Practice doing one-card spreads and then opening up that card. This will give you quick,
easy, and fast answers that help you address several issues, even hypothetical ones you
 create simply to develop your bond with your deck. Do this as often as possible as this
 one exercise will develop your skills fast, and you can do it anywhere, at any time,
 and you can grab the four cards and “pack everything up” with no hassle, should you
 suddenly need to be somewhere (or if you get bored).
Multiple-card Spreads
 There are more multiple-card spreads than you really should ever bother to try out.
 Anyone can invent their own spread, and the popularity of the web has brought most of
 them online. Master your one-, two-, and three-card spreads first while you develop
 your skills at combining, comparing, contrasting (etc.) cards, because those same skills
 apply to every spread you will ever do. Please also remember that the more cards you
 pull, the more time you will spend answering one question. You can always pull one,
 two, or three cards and get a valid answer for a question. But if you get in the habit of
 casting forty-two-card spreads on a regular basis, you will be spending hours on each
 spread, and that is time we hope you will be getting paid for.
 That being said, there are a few basic spreads you will want to know. We have provided a
 few easy and reliable “yes or no” spreads, an easy to learn timing spread, and a choice
 spread which is helpful for making decisions. But be absolutely sure to study and
 practice the Celtic Cross. It is the most well-known spread in the world, and your
 clients will expect you to know it. We will skip origins and histories for the moment, as
 all of that is debatable and does not make you a better Tarot reader by knowing one
 version of the story or another.
Quick and Easy “Yes or No” Spreads
 A lot of your readings will involve many “yes or no” questions. Having a good “yes or no”
 spread that you feel comfortable with (one you can trust for quality advice on a regular
 basis) will make your job—and life— a lot less stressful, and gain you a reputation as an
 expert card reader quickly. Most of the “accuracy factor” will come from your connection
 with your deck far more than the method you select for discerning how to divine a “yes”
 versus a “no.” Anyone can play with cards. In fact, a computer can spit out readings and
 interpretations of cards faster than any ten professional readers put together. But speed
 is nothing compared to quality of the answer. Always remember that. You are not a
 computer. You need to develop a solid bond with your cards and sharpen your instincts
 so that your answers are reliable. So here are a few ways to pull “yes” or no” answers.
 Please try them all, invent new ones, ask your teacher what methods they like, and
 decide what works for you over time.
Aces-up
 This is an incredibly old method that is rather time and energy consuming; but if you
 don’t mind your clients touching your deck (or if you have a reliable deck that you do
 let them put their grubby little hands all over), this is good for them to have a feel in the
 action. Hand them the deck you want them to use. Ask them to focus an image of their
 question. Then have them shuffle the deck, or mix the cards from one hand to the other,
 thoroughly (give them 2-3 minutes) and have them explain what their question is and
 why they want to know. The point is to infuse their energy into the deck along with the
 energy of their question. When you feel they have shuffled enough, take the deck from
 them and flip over 40 cards, one at a time. Do this quickly. The whole point is to see how
 many Aces come up in the first 40 cards. If three or four Aces show themselves, the
 answer is a solid yes. If two Aces turn over, the answer is more of a “maybe” and doesn’t
 look very good: This calls for a reading why. Try the Roundabout Spread to help
 them figure out how to get what they want to happen. If one or no Aces show up at all,
 the answer is a definite no and they should reconsider what they want or how they plan
 on going about getting it.
 Tarot deck
 “flipped card” pile
 Hey! Look at you! Three Aces up means you are probably going to get your
 wish after all. Four Aces would qualify as an uncontested “Yes!!” But three
 Aces shows that only a little effort will be required on your part. Don’t blow
 this opportunity!
“Up or Down Vote”
 This spread requires that you read cards reversed, and that your deck is thoroughly
 shuffled. Flip one card. That’s all there is to it.
 Method One: “Up” means yes, “reversed” means no.
 Method Two: You can also use suit meanings. Wands means yes, but you will
 have to work for it; Cups means that it will come to you naturally; Coins means
 it will come with a price—if at all; and Swords means no. “Major” Arcana cards
 mean, “It is in the hands of the gods,” (as in “good luck!”).
 Alternatively, you can consider if, “the card is generally positive or is it generally
 negative.” Most of our students have found this method is a bit less reliable, but we
 mention it here in case you have better success with it. The whole point of a simple one
card “yes or no” spread is simplicity and accuracy. As you build your skill in this, you
 may even want to try dowsing with your cards, versus using a witching stick.
 Examples:
 Method One
 Tarot deck
 Method Two
 “Yes”
 “No”
 “Yes”
 “No”
Tarot deck
 “Um... no”
 “Yes. Now get to
 work!”
 “It will cost you to
 get in.”
 “Bring some
 money...”
“Gyaaa! How long will this take?!!”
 This is a fun little spread for your impatient clients. You have answered their question
 and now they want to know when. “When, when, when?!!” You will get asked that a lot
 over the years. When will I meet a guy I like? When will my husband finally learn to
 put the seat down? When will my stupid boss give me a raise? This quick spread will
 show you how soon something will come to pass. You have to know exactly what is is
 that you want (or want to know), and a rough time frame you are asking about (the next
 30 days, the next year...).
 For example, you are at your favorite coffeehouse practicing your skills, and one of your
 best friends plops down and starts whining about her love life. She looks at you and asks
 you to, “Ask the cards when I will finally meet a guy who’s not a complete and total
 idiot!” Being a saint (as well as a good friend), you smile at her and ignore the fact that
 she completely interrupted your practice, and you toss out this spread, looking out over
 the coming 12 months. Here are the results you get:
 Tarot deck
 “flipped card” pile
 First card flipped
 Well... that was easy. You explain to her that every card in this spread (being that you
 were looking out over the next 12 months) is approximately 4-5 days, so it looks like she
 should meet someone in the next few days. She nods and says something absently that
 sounds a lot like “That’s nice...” and suddenly jumps up from the table to “go talk to that
 hot guy at the counter.” The way this spread works is simply to pick a card from your
 knowledge of the Tarot that answers the question at hand. In this case, The Lovers, the 2
of Cups, the 10 of Cups, the Ace of Cups, or even the 6 of Cups would have shown
 encounters that your friend might end up turning into relationships.
 The process goes like this: Ask your question while shuffling and take the time to think
 of what cards you would consider a strong “positive” answer to your question. Also
 decide what time frame you are looking at. Once you are satisfied that you have passed
 the question into the deck and have shuffled thoroughly enough, draw the number of
 cards below. If one of your chosen cards shows up, you have your answer. If none of
 your cards show up, the answer is that you have to wait, or remedy the situation to make
 it more likely that what you want will come to pass. Make changes in your life and try
 again later. Here are the general guidelines for various time frames:
 If you are asking about something you expect within a week, draw 7 cards to start
 with. If you are asking about something over the next 30 days, draw 15 cards, one at
 a time of course. For a year, flip no more than 21 cards. Flip each one over and
 mentally count until you reach your maximum draw or until you get one of your
 preselected cards.
This or That
 Another dilemma your clients will come to you with regularly is the classic “this or that”
 scenario. “Should I stay with my girlfriend or go after that actress I met at a party the
 other night?” or “Should I keep my current job or quit and start my own business this
 summer?” or “Should I move to Cleveland or Cincinnati? ” People want advice on how to
 live their lives, but they want credible answers, not guesswork or opinions. What you
 need is a reliable “this or that” spread for occasions such as this. Fortunately, we have
 one below. We hope you will like it as well as we do. The best part is that you already
 know how to do it. It is a simple two-card reading followed by opening up each card.
 This is why we wanted you to practice, practice, practice your one-, two-, and three-card
 spreads. Some of your best spreads will be combinations of one-, two- and three-card
 readings, and others will incorporate the blending, merging, comparing, contrasting,
 and opening up of one or more cards in the spread you throw. Don’t ever mistake
 complexity for accuracy. Simplicity works (and it is a lot less stressful on you). You can
 always add cards to any reading if you feel the need at the time.
 Step one:
 Select a significator card for each choice in the matter at hand. Lay them out face up,
 side by side, but with enough room between them for the rest of the reading. Tell your
 client that these represent the options they are considering. Make sure they understand
 this. Shuffle the deck (or have them shuffle if you are so inclined).
 Step two:
 Flip one card over on top of each significator card as an “answer” to your client’s
 question. Verify that these cards generally make sense before you proceed to the next
step.
 (In our example we have moved the flipped cards off to the side so you can clearly see
 the significator cards below.)
 Step three:
 Now simply “open” each of the answer cards up for a better picture of “what and why”
 things are predicted to turn out this way. Ask questions and compare what your client
 says to what you see in your spread.
The Celtic Cross
 This is the most popular spread in the world. Movie directors use it a lot, further
 increasing its fame. It is a reliable spread; certainly not the best spread ever created, but
 it works for most routine situations, and it is easy to remember. There are a few
 variations on this spread and you can use whichever one you fancy (they all work just as
 well as any other), but the version we will teach you here is the one we were taught, back
 in the Stone Age. We use it because it makes sense. Use your own best judgment in your
 readings. Here is the basic layout:
 In the box on the left is the order the cards are laid out in the version
 of the Celtic Cross spread we have used over the decades. The energy
 flows clockwise and then up. You may choose to use this or use any
 version of your choice as long as it works for you. Please note
 that the second card is placed directly above the first card at a 90
degree angle (turned clockwise).
The second card (“what crosses you”) is laid over the first card
 (“you”). We have moved it in this illustration. In the illustration
 above it is shown covering the first card.
 NOTE: To significate or not to significate? That is the question you will have
 to face every reading. If you talk to enough people, you will undoubtedly hear
 all sorts of passionate arguments about whether you “should always” (or not)
 use a special card to indicate or “significate” the person, place, or thing you
 are asking about. Use one if you like. End of story.
 Why use one at all? Well, they tend to make you look more professional to
 your clients. They also give you something to focus on (the card), and a
 placeholder for the rest of your spread. If you need help understanding the
 significance of the significator (sorry), please look up “Significator” in the
 Glossary for a full rundown on exactly what it is.
 One other thing about significators: You can use it as a placeholder to start
 your spread, or as the first card of your spread. Once again, if you talk to
 enough people, you will hear arguments on both sides of this issue. Do what
 your teacher says for now, and see how that works out. If you do not have a
teacher at the moment, we recommend trying out significators, and placing
 the spread on top of them, as if they were part of the tablecloth. Then later on
 try using them as the first card of your spread. This is what practice is for: to
 find out what works for you. Never, ever, ever let anyone convince you that
 “practice” is simply repetition. “Practice” is your personal time where you
 sharpen your skills, experiment, and do whatever you want free from
 judgment.
 Things you should know about the Celtic Cross spread...
 First and foremost: Unlike other spreads you already know, this is a general spread. It
 provides an overview of a situation, looking at the various factors involved, including
 how everything came to be. This spread is good for general occasions and vague
 questions (like “Will I find love?”). Other times you will need more specific or targeted
 spreads to give you direct answers to your questions. Learn and practice this spread as it
 will serve you well, but do not rely solely on it.
 Okay, let’s go over what each card position of the spread entails. As noted earlier, the
 whole purpose of a spread is to assign set meanings to card positions, so that every time
 a card falls in that slot, you know exactly what that position means, and you simply
 apply that card’s meaning to it. This is why it is so important for you to actually
 know how to read the cards, to have them talk to you, rather than simply memorize
 some meaning or symbolism someone or some book (like this one) once told you was
 “the only one true answer.” If there were only one true answer, we could simply use
 computers to tell our fortunes. You need to know what the cards say to you. Any
 spread you throw (or cast) is simply an organizational tool to make hearing what the
 cards are trying to tell you infinitely more easy. That said, here is the breakdown for the
 version of the Celtic Cross we have found to work the best for us over the years:
 Card 1:
 (not the significator) This card represents “you”; being the situation at hand, the event,
 place, person, thing, or whatever the issue is that you are reading. If you are using a
 significator, this is a clarifying card as to what is “really going on” to the significator,
 whether that is a person, place, or thing. If you are not using a significator, this card
 holds the same meaning. You simply have not used a card from the deck to signify the
 “thing” you are reading. The importance of this card is that it verifies the spread. This
 card should easily match your understanding or impressions of the matter at hand. If
 not, look at the second, third, and fourth cards. Unless those cards are spot on, then
 you haven’t shuffled well enough, or were unclear in asking your question. You should
 reshuffle your deck (more carefully this time) and relax, focus on the matter at hand,
and listen to what your cards tell you about “when to cast the spread.”
 Card 2:
 “What crosses you (for good or bad).” This is the first “active” card of the reading. As an
 example: If your significator card were a baseball player, the first card would be him
 standing at home plate with a bat in his hand ready to swing at the next ball the pitcher
 throws at him. This card would be the actual ball flying at him (at 90 miles per
 hour). The act of being in the baseball park ready to have a baseball lobbed at you is “a
 situation.” It is static, but it is in the present, or “ready to be acted upon.” This card
 comes flying at you and WHAM! What happens next? This card reveals a lot of why your
 querent is asking you for answers. If they have been truthful with you and you have
 prepared your deck and yourself to answer that question, this card will tell you
 immediately what is really going on. One more metaphor: If the first card were a picnic
 your querent happened to be at, this card would tell you whether it was raining (or
 sunny, or whether they were generally having a good time, or if the potato salad had
 gone bad). Before anything else happens, this card screams out the immediate situation
 and provides the basis for every other card you will interpret.
 Card 3:
 This is an interesting card because it shows the hidden or unseen forces behind the
 question. It reveals why your querent wants to know what’s going on. It often works with
 the next card (the recent past) and can actually be something from the past. Other times
 it will be a suspicion they hold in their heads, or even something that is actually
 happening, whether they happen to actually know it or they simply suspect it right now.
 Use this card to help form a foundation of understanding of the situation before you get
 into any final predictions.
 Card 4:
 “The (usually recent) past.” Pretty straightforward location here. This is either
 something that has happened, a state of being, or the cause before the effect. This card
 location reflects something that directly affects the question or situation, so it may be
 something from the distant past if that thing was extremely powerful. Use this card as
 reference and/or verification of the spread, but don’t fuss over it too much unless it
 obviously needs to be addressed to the querent.
 Card 5:
“What could be.” This card is like the Sword of Damocles*. It “hangs over your head”
 and “could become if...” This card is highly dependent upon circumstance and action,
 but it is a precursor to any “final result,” and generally represents options for the near
 future, or what will happen (unless a direct change of course is undertaken). Compare
 this to card 10 (the final outcome, or end-result) to see if there is continuity of
 philosophy, emotional connection, or direct physical action. Usually you will see
 parallels in these two card spots. NOTE: Some readers prefer the term “this crowns you”
 (and if that single strand of hair breaks, it just might!).
 Card 6:
 “This comes next.” This will happen. Before you get to your final result, this card must
 be crossed. Compare this card to card 4 and then to card 3. Look casually for patterns
 and associations but don’t force associations or make leaps of logic just yet. Do a quick
 comparison to card 5 to see if there is a congruency of thought and action. Then do a
 quick look at card 10 to see if there is a flow of action or a synchronicity of purpose.
 Ideally cards 5, 6, and 10 will all work together, but how often does life work that way?
 How often do any of us have resolute focus and consistent supportive action? As
 humans we are a bundle of conflicting desires and actions, each supporting and negating
 other actions and desires we carry simultaneously. So if cards 5, 6, and 10 are a jumble,
 explain to your client that they may need to refocus their desires and actions to work
 seamlessly together, not in conflict.
 Card 7:
 This card represents the negative side of the question. This is what you are afraid of,
 what you are ignoring, or what you don’t want to happen. This is the only card slot that
 is inherently negative, but even so, it can be a very positive card location. The ever
present counterbalance to “the law of attraction” is its sister “the law of repulsion.”
 Pushing away is just as powerful as pulling toward psychically, as well as physically (and
 usually much easier as well). This card can represent anything we fear, can’t see, or want
 gone from us in regards to the situation at hand. Compare it to all of the other cards to
 determine how your client is handling the overall situation at hand.
 Card 8:
 This position shows us what other people are feeling. This card can be a general
 consensus from a large body of people or the direct influence of someone important to
 the querent or their question. It may even be why they are asking the question in the
 first place. People influence us every day. No matter how resolute our will, or how strong
our desire (or need), someone will usually bend our opinions and actions along the way.
 We are all affected to some extent by the people around us. This position shows us how
 that social pressure is affecting the situation. In a simple question of marriage, this may
 be the mother (or mother-in-law) harping on some point or another. In a group or
 politically related question, this card could indicate the “popular opinion” among the
 masses. It shows us what we face from others both now and as a consequence of our
 actions.
 Card 9:
 “This is your hopes and dreams.” This spot represents your client’s goals, their desires,
 and their positive associations with the question at hand (see “Law of Attraction”). Often
 it will reveal information your client has conveniently omitted, a secret desire they are
 afraid to voice lest you judge them too harshly, so don’t be surprised if you see
 something a bit shocking.
 Card 10:
 This is the final outcome or end result. In the end “something” has to happen. This card
 is not an absolute. It is the most likely outcome given the current set of actions and
 decisions by all parties involved. Compare this card directly to cards 5 and 6 before
 settling on an answer. Do the current events and implications support or “help” this
 outcome? Do they stand in the way? Are there conflicting energies or obstacles before
 the final destination? Now look at the internal cards (cards 7 and 9). How do your
 client’s feelings affect the outcome? Is their desire true and strong, or do they secretly
 wish for something else? Is their fear stronger than their desire? Do their fears of “this”
 prevent “that” from happening? People sabotage themselves every day. Is your client
 doing that right now? Is that why they came to you for a reading (whether they know it
 or not yet)?
 Compare card 10 to the rest of the spread. Is there a flow of energy to the end result?
 Does it make sense? Look for general patterns among cards that cloud or confirm the
 reading, but don’t lose your focus on the question at hand. Once you have a pretty
 good feel of the reading, look for additional patterns by asking yourself the
 following questions:
 Are there more than three “major” Arcana cards? This often indicates huge, impersonal
 forces at work, being decisions made that affect the querent they are powerless to
 change, and must deal with the consequences. For example: An economic recession or
 even a “first quarter sales slump” may cause the board of directors at the company your
 client works for to lay off half of its employees. This is an unavoidable circumstance that
directly affects your client as surely as if it rained on their picnic. Of course, these
 outside forces can be favorable or unpleasant to your client, but an abundance of
 “major” Arcana cards often shows that someone or something else is pulling the strings
 of the overall situation and they have to accept that or change their place in the whole of
 it.
 Are there more than two cards of the same number? If your ten-card reading has all four
 7’s in it (Coins, Wands, Swords, Cups), then focus on the repetitive energy or “pattern
 behavior” the “7 cards” represent. Compare the “7 cards” to each other and then
 compare their location and proximity to each other. Also look to see if they flow. For
 example: They are in positions 3, 4, 6, and 10 (showing a linear progression) or they are
 in 5, 6, 9, and 10 (showing a congruency between thought and action, cause and effect),
 and so on. In the case of a “major” Arcana card adding its own weight, proceed with a
 slight bit of skepticism when looking for patterns. If you see two of the “minor” Arcana
 4’s and The Emperor (IV), look to see if this is important but don’t place as much
 emphasis as you would in the above (“7’s”) example.
 Is there an abundance of any one particular suit? If you get four or more Cups in a ten
card spread about love, don’t be surprised, but note how much of a highly charged
 emotional situation this is. No matter what suit you get, or what the nature of your
 reading is, if you see that approximately 40% or more of the cards are of a particular
 suit, then add this additional awareness to your considerations of the reading’s
 implications. Excluding the “major” Arcana, each suit represents 25% of the deck. The
 “minor” Arcana alone represents over 70% of the deck, so you will undoubtedly see
 more “minor” Arcana cards on a regular basis. Simple probability will throw out the
 occasional oddly disproportionate distribution of suits or Arcana; but when you see a
 definite pattern that enhances your collective impressions from the spread at large,
 make a note of it.
 Are there more than three “face cards”? Almost every Tarot card has someone in it doing
 something or another. “Face cards” (or “court cards” if you prefer) specifically represent
 people by societal position. When you see a face card (court card) the emphasis is placed
 on their position as an authority, or the emphasis is pointing directly at their core
 personality or characteristics as they pertain to the situation at hand. An abundance
 indicates that people are more essential to the issue than any particular path of action.
 Ask yourself (and your client), “Who are these people and why are they so important to
 the question?” This is the direction you need to follow to get answers. Open up these
 cards if necessary.
 Additionally
 Expansion cards: Sometimes your spread will answer a lot of foundation questions, or
verify what you already know, but it won’t quite give you everything you want to know.
 You don’t want to pick everything up and start fresh, but you want “just a little more”
 information. More often your client will allow you to answer their question in depth and
 without hesitation they will whine “but what about...?” This is when being able to “add a
 few cards” to the spread helps you keep the focus of the question at hand but draw out a
 bit more information. The most common method is simply to draw one to three more
 cards from the top of the deck to “expand upon” the final outcome. Alternatively, you
 can always reshuffle the deck (leaving the spread untouched), as you focus on what you
 know already and what you wish to find out as well.
 Clarification cards: This is the process of “opening up a card” from earlier in the book,
 and this is exactly where you will use it. It works in exactly the same way as “expansion
 cards” (above), except that you can apply them to any card in the spread you wish to
 know more about. We highly recommend shuffling the deck, or drawing individual cards
 at random rather than simply from the top of the deck when doing this.
Astrological and time spreads
 These spreads work amazingly well, but you really have to focus on your client and the
 matter at hand or you will just get an incoherent jumble of cards. Please note that these
 are “general spreads.” They cover ALL areas of life, or all possible angles, so these are
 not effective readings for simple “yes or no” or highly specific questions.
 Practice these spreads a lot. Once you get the hang of it, you will find these to be some of
 your most resourceful (and most useful) spreads. Basic order of card distribution is
 below. Interpretations start on the next page. Be sure to check out all of these spreads.
 The diagram above illustrates the order to lay out the cards “astrologically.” Each card
 position in this layout represents the energies of an astrological house or sign, whereas
 the cards themselves replace the planets. These spreads use a significator card, which is
 placed in the center of the circle. In these spreads, the significator card can be the
 querent, the situation, or the end goal. This is especially true of the second spread you
 will find on the following pages. In that particular spread we strongly recommend that
 you use a significator card to represent the end goal. It is possible to use it without a
 significator if you wish to leave that card in your deck and focus directly on your client
 or the object being questioned.
This same basic layout can be used for other, non-astrological spreads as
 well, such as a time spread, where each card represents one hour of a day or one month
 of the (solar) year, or even three cards to a season. In the latter case, the card layout
 remains the same, but in the day and year spreads the first card should be laid at the
 “one o’clock” position (where card 9 resides in the above spread) and the rest of the
 cards would follow in a clockwise fashion. Clarification cards fit easily on the outer edge
 of the circle, as needed.
 Please note: In this and following examples we have placed the cards so that each card
 reads upright facing out (the top of each card is on the outside edge of the circle). If
 you want to reverse this and place each card in your spread facing in, instead of facing
 out that works just as well.
Generic Astrological spread
 The spread above represents the most basic use of Tarot cards to represent astrological
 signs and houses. While this is a very good spread, it is a very intricate spread and
 the meanings can be very difficult to decipher. On the next page, we have created a
 simplified spread that follows the same format, one we think you will find much easier
 to use and extremely useful, especially if you are not adept at astrology.
 The layout shown above may be interchanged with the layout
 to the right if you prefer. Just remember which house is which, and
 which way is “up” when you are reading. This is true of any “round”
 spread.
The Roundabout spread
 You will love this spread. We promise. This is a carefully researched and tested
 astrologically-correct spread that has been simplified so that anyone with a good
 connection with their cards can decipher any situation, no matter how complex.
 This spread does not invest as much card energy in predicting future events as it defines
 a map of how to get where you want to be from where you are now. Generally speaking,
 astrological spreads do not “predict” the future as much as they give an overall view of
 what is going on. In this spread, you will find easy-to-access answers that lead you
 directly to your goal. We hope you will master this spread, for it will work tirelessly for
 you for years to come. The order the cards are laid out is exactly the same as any other
 astrological spread. NOTE: This is a “how to get what you want” spread that is best
 for manifestation use.
 PLEASE NOTE: This spread is from the lesson plans of our own mystery
 school and you will not find it anywhere else. You are welcome to use it
 personally and professionally, and to teach it to your students, but please do
not reprint the card layout or interpretations without prior written consent. If
 you have any questions or comments, please post us a note in the free course
 at AdvancedTarotSecrets.com. We would love to hear from you. Expanded
 interpretation follows on the next page.
Card position meanings
 Card 1:
 What’s important to you (right now). The “here and now.” What you are focusing on.
 The situation at “face value.”
 Card 2:
 As a setting or circumstance: This card shows the situation “at face value.”
 This also makes it a good verification card to determine if the spread is indeed
 accurate, or simply random cards. If this card does not tie in directly to the
 matter at hand, stop and examine the overall feel of the spread before spending
 any amount of time interpreting it. If every other card “makes sense,” this card
 indicates self-deception on the part of your client—or they are lying to you.
 As an expression of the querent: This shows the needs of the person or
 event that is at the center of the question. “This is what is most important to
 you.” This card will show you what they want, need, or “can’t live without.” This
 is their focus. “Getting” comes from “doing,” and “doing” requires knowing
 what to “do.” If your client is not clear on exactly what they want, this card will
 reveal it.
 Any card reversed here will reveal selfish, impatient, or explosively
 aggressive tendencies associated with or toward the card that occupies this
 spot.
 What you have (own) right now, or what you “have to work with.” What you know
 already.
 Habits you need to develop. Steps to take to get what you want.
 As a setting or circumstance: This card shows what you have to work with
 right now. It shows your current resources and possessions, or what you have
 on hand that helps you toward your goal. If you do not have these things yet,
 the card here will show you what habits you need to develop and what steps you
 need to take now to achieve your goal.
 As an expression of the querent: This is your platform or your base of
 opinion and operations. This can also indicate your “strong points.” Make sure
that your client is not taking these things for granted, or ignoring their potential
 value.
 Card 3:
 Any card reversed here will reveal greed or possessiveness, even jealousy,
 over whatever is represented by the card occupying this position. Any obsession
 here must be overcome before progress can be made.
 What needs to be said, changes you need to make to get what you want, alternative
 ways to get where you want to be.
 Card 4:
 As a setting or circumstance: This position is dynamic. It shows you what
 is unstable in your life or what you need to change to get where you want to be.
 Occasionally in readings it will show you ideas instead of current actualities.
 As an expression of the querent: This is what you need to get off of your
 chest, what you need to say to someone, or who you need to address regarding
 the question asked. It can also reveal beliefs and attitudes that need to be
 changed or new ones that need to be assumed in order to reach your goal. Due
 to the numerous variations possible here, please compare this card’s message to
 the rest of the spread and be sure to get additional information from your client
 if you need to.
 Any card reversed here tells us about uncertainties, inconsistencies, or
 delusions that are preventing acquisition of the goal. These can be people who
 are working against the wishes of the querent (by happenstance or by design) or
 they could even be the fallibilities of the querent themselves. Perhaps your
 client is “their own worst enemy.” People do this every day. If you see a card
 reversed in this spot, tread carefully while you verify information before giving
 your client advice on how to proceed.
 Your secret support or reserve. What (secretly) drives you. “Your secret weapon or
 allies.”
 As a setting or circumstance: As a location, this is any safe place or a
 haven. For example, the 3 of Cups here could indicate a celebration (family
 dinner, feast, or party) at home. But the 3 of Swords would indicate infidelity
 from your spouse or an argument with your mother, any woman close to you, or
 even a confrontation with the security guard at your condo! The key points of
identification for any location indicated here are security, privacy, and
 familiarity. Unfortunately, not all of life’s motivations are positive. Sometimes
 the best motivators are fear and/or pain. We do not have to like what drives us
 forward, but we can always use it.
 Card 5:
 As an expression of the querent: These are your hidden talents or
 strengths that you may not be focusing on right now. This is what keeps you
 going, and you should make it a point to harness this energy. A person in this
 position will usually be a secret ally or a close friend, someone whose efforts
 behind the scenes help the querent make progress. If it is a negative card (see
 directly below), this still may be a positive motivational force (“moving toward”
 something and “moving away” from something are equally powerful
 motivational drives). This is the simultaneous “law of attraction and repulsion”
 in action.
 Any card reversed here gives us insecurity (lack of safety—or—paranoia),
 jealousy among close ties, a lack of emotional support and any compassion at
 all, or inner turmoil.
 What you need to have the courage to do; how to get support for your cause. What
 to project.
 How to take charge. Risks to take. What you will be praised for accomplishing.
 Card 6:
 As a setting or circumstance: Like Card 6, these may be things you are
 avoiding, are putting off, or even feel you are “not ready for yet.” This card
 represents demons you must face down or challenges you need to attempt in
 order to get the help (and recognition) you need from others.
 As an expression of the querent: This shows risks you are willing to take,
 grand dreams you have. You still need to do these things.
 Any card reversed here shows tyranny, egoic-invalidation (bullying, low
 self-esteem, lack of courage, identity crises, scars, possibly outright fear).
 Details you have to address now, possibly things you may be avoiding.
 As a setting or circumstance: It’s time to tighten the belt a few notches, set
the alarm clock earlier, burn some midnight oil, or buy a better book of clichés.
 No matter the case, this is “the devil you know” (being the devil in the details)
 whereas card 12 reveals “the devil you don’t.” These are things you need to do
 (usually unpleasant, or you would already be doing them), or you need to do
 more of them, or do them better.
 Card 7:
 As an expression of the querent: These are things you are avoiding,
 ignoring, or have even outsourced, hoping that someone else will do them. Stop
 it. Address the matters at hand and move on—now.
 Any card reversed here gives us confusion, or a lack of knowledge, even a
 lack of awareness. Fear could be hiding underneath all of this. These matters
 must be ferreted out or they will continue to hamper progress.
 Other people (who are important to or are involved in) the situation. Other people’s
 feelings toward you or the question at hand. What’s important to them.
 Card 8:
 As a setting or circumstance: This can be other people who are pressuring
 you, or are being directly affected by the situation; or it can be the opinions of
 these people. Whatever this card reveals will illustrate what is most
 important at this time: the actual people involved, their attitudes, or their
 actions.
 As an expression of the querent: This is how you are affecting others.
 Alternately, this is someone or several people who are affecting you (see above).
 Any card reversed here shows negative input from others or a negative
 impact on others. In most cases it will be clear; but when in doubt, describe to
 your client the effect you see and find out whether they are being pressured or if
 they are actively working against another in the situation the reading addresses.
 Open this card up to help your client find solutions.
 Secrets. What you don’t know or what’s being hidden from view. What you can’t see (for
 whatever reason). Things you need to find out if you are to succeed.
 As a setting or circumstance: There are things you need to find out. Secrets
 are being held from you, or you need certain information to make progress or a
 decision. This card points to what this information is or who is guarding it. You
may have to do another spread to figure out exactly how to get that
 information, or you can open this card up for clarification.
 Card 9:
 As an expression of the querent: This card can also show what your
 client is hiding. This is a somewhat rare situation, but in readings involving
 deception (infidelity, divorce, business or political negotiations, etc.) you might
 find this card pointing directly back at your client, indicating that they are
 withholding vital information and that this will affect the outcome of the
 situation they are involved in.
 Any card reversed here could indicate all sorts of sordid entertainment:
 deception, blackmail, conspiracy, theft, infidelity, extortion, secrets revealed,
 possibly scandals arising from this.
 Your hopes and dreams, goals (and occasionally your contingency plans).
 Card 10:
 As a setting or circumstance: This is what you are hoping to come about.
 As an expression of the querent: Personal goals, grand ideas and ideals.
 Any card reversed here shows a lack of creativity, drifting aimlessly, fears of
 dreaming big, taking on too much at once, scattered energies, lack of focus, or
 unrealistic expectations.
 End results. What will happen if you take correct action.
 If you follow the advice of this spread, this is what you can expect.
 As a setting or circumstance: This is what will happen if your client follows
 the advice of the spread(assuming that the spread is valid and your advice is
 solid).
 As an expression of the querent: Congratulations! Whatever bed you
 made, here it is...
 Any card reversed here indicates things not quite turning out as we had
 hoped. It can show sabotage (look carefully at cards 8 and 12), self-sabotage
 (study cards 3, 5, 6 and 9), or any other result stemming directly from not
 taking the necessary steps. Some “requests” will be impossible for that person
to accomplish (a client may come to ask you how he can steal Angelina Jolie
 from Brad Pitt and you may get the 3 of Hearts reversed as a result, with
 Judgement in the 11th position). Any reversed card here immediately requires a
 careful study of the spread, most especially if the reversed card is “obvious and
 specific” in its relation to the querent or the question at hand. Often the very
 reason for the failure will be written all over the spread. People deceive
 themselves every day. It is possible one of your clients will come to you asking
 you to perform some kind of miracle for them or expect you to simply tell them
 the answers they want to hear—even in the face of absolute proof that what they
 want cannot possibly be.
 Card 11:
 What will happen as a result of your “results.” How other people will react.
 General consensus or “resulting public opinion.”
 As a setting or circumstance: So much emphasis is placed on “the getting”
 of what we want (money, love, sex, popularity, fame, power, etc.) that the next
 part, or “what do we do now?” aspect of “having” anything is not considered
 until after the fact. This causes no end of fun and entertainment for us on the
 sidelines (it is a well-established fact that someone getting bonked on the head
 with an anvil in a cartoon, or a huge celebrity being hauled off to rehab, getting
 divorced, or losing their money is “fun and entertaining” to the public at large
 only as long as it is happening to someone else). The point of all of this is that
 card 11 gives us a peek into the future to see what will happen after we “do
 everything right” and get results (revealed in card 10). The “and then...” comes
 to life and we get to see the consequences of our actions and machinations
 before we complete them. This is invaluable information.
 If, for example, your client is working on an invention and they are seeking
 funding and the card in position 10 shows them successfully patenting their
 new idea and the next card is either the 6 of Coins, or the Ace of Coins, or even
 the 10 of Coins, you will have some pretty good news for your client, but: the 6
 shows an investor, the Ace shows a bank loan, and the 10 shows the possibility
 of selling the whole idea outright and retiring to Tahiti. Your interpretations
 may be slightly different, but the whole point of card 11 is to show us how other
 people (who are important to the spread) will react.
 As an expression of the querent: See above. Also, this is what you will have
 to deal with.
Any card reversed here is not a very good sign. Study the whole spread,
 especially cards 9 and 10. Without moralizing, are your client’s desires
 honorable? Are they trying to cause pain and misery to others? Because a
 reversed card in this position shows you that their efforts will bring
 unpleasantries, or even backfire on them. Good to know before it happens.
 Card 12:
 Your secret enemies. Sacrifices you may be called to make. What is preventing you from
 succeeding. Obstacles in your way. What is standing between you and your goal.
 As a setting or circumstance: This is the “devil you don’t know” (see also
 card 6). What is revealed here is anything that is standing in your way that has
 not been addressed already. Often this will be something internal (see below).
 It could, however, uncover the plot of a false friend, someone who is nice to
 your face but is secretly trying to steal your money, your spouse, your idea, or
 someone who, for whatever reason they believe “justifiable,” is working against
 you or your plans.
 As an expression of the querent: This indicates (more) self-deception,
 laziness, bad habits, a secret wish to fail, or it reinforces fears already
 uncovered. The good news is that a proper reading and interpretation of this
 card will point out exactly what needs to be gotten rid of so that your client can
 make progress.
 Any card reversed here an show an overcoming of said disability, or it
 shows a lack of the positive trait or energy needed to succeed.
Time Spreads: Twelve-hour or “one-day” forecast
 The spread below can be read as “one card per hour,” “one card for every two hours”
 (for a 24-hour spread), or you can break the whole thing up into four three-card spreads,
 each representing 6 hours, which you would read as morning, afternoon, evening, and
 night. The only thing you need to be certain of is exactly how you will read them before
 you throw the cards. The one cardinal sin in casting spreads is to change your mind on
 how you will read the cards after you have cast the spread.
 This spread is useful for predicting the events or overall feel of the day, if you like.
Time Spreads: A basic one-year forecast
 The spread below is incredibly simple. It is simply four three-card spreads in succession.
 Start with any season and draw twelve cards from the deck to cover the next twelve
 months. In our illustration below we are starting with spring, but you can start
 anywhere in the year you like. You can read the spread as “one card for each month”; but
 we strongly recommend that you try reading the spread as “four three-card spreads in
 succession,” as this gives a more in-depth view of each season, where as “one card per
 month” is a masochistic invitation for your client to ask you endless questions about
 how “one card” can dictate the entire happenings of a month, and “what else you see”
 (and so on). Of course, the most important thing you can do is to practice and see what
 works best for you.
 In our example spread below we kept with the astrological spread feel and threw the
 cards counterclockwise, starting at “spring.” You can throw your cards clockwise,
 counterclockwise, left, right, backwards, however you like, as long as it makes perfect
 sense to you, because you have to read the cards, after all.
Fun Things You Can do to Your Tarot Deck!
 (Write funny captions on them...)
 Below are some examples of what we have done to our Tarot cards over the years. These
 will undoubtedly shock and enrage a few of the purist sect of Tarot aficionados, but that
 is not why we did them. We did them because we were bored at the time, it sounded like
 fun, it was fun (we made it a competition of who could write the funniest captions), and
 it was a way to become more attuned with our decks, understanding them more
 intimately. If you choose to write your own captions on your deck, we strongly
 recommend having a “caption deck” specifically, one that you may or may not read with
 regularly, but don’t write on your only deck.




Quick and easy “Cheat Sheets”
 On the following pages we have provided multiplication table-style charts for you to jot
 down your own personal meaning of each card. The boxes have been kept small to
 require you to summarize each card’s “general meaning” (given allowances for variation
 if and as needed in each reading). We encourage you to use short descriptive
 sentences or multiple keywords. Simply fill in what you “know now” and add more when
 it comes to you. If you find certain cards are giving you trouble, please don’t simply
 write something in just to fill that box. Spend some time with your cards and figure out
 what each card says to you.
 We have provided three complete sets of tables so that you can fill these out now and do
 so again two more times in the future—after you have practiced with your deck and
 given quite a few readings. Fill out the first set of tables as soon as your teacher instructs
 you to, or if you are teaching yourself (and many of the best readers have, so you would
 be in good company), fill the first one out as soon as you have successfully completed all
 of the previous exercises in this book. Either way, make it a point to come back in three
 to six months and fill in the second set of tables (without peeking at your answers from
 the first set of tables until after you have completed all of the tables), and then six
 months after that, assuming that you are keeping up with your Tarot practice.
 In the meantime, these charts will help serve to remind you of the general card
 interpretations (according to you, which is the most important authority when you are
 reading). Make sure to use these charts in your early readings as much as possible.
 Please note:
 For the ebook version of this book, please go to AdvancedTarotSecrets.com and
 click on “download worksheets”
“Minor” Arcana Ace through Ten
“Minor” Arcana “Face cards” (royal court)
 Notes:
 The Tarot is an allegory of the many paths we can take in life and how easily
one path can be altered or changed by our loss of focus or distraction. It is not
 the path of one suit that is “the way” to success and happiness, but the careful
 blending of the suits as they represent our experiences. I am finding that...
Section Four
 THE “MINOR” ARCANA
Introduction to the “minor” Arcana
 Here we examine the “minor” Arcana—the 56 cards that deal with the aspects of daily
 life. Please do not be fooled by the term “minor,” as it is the affairs we attend to daily
 that shape the whole of our lives. If it helps, please take a moment and imagine the
 whole of you as a giant mosaic, where each day is one tile of thousands that reveal your
 essence to the world. Each stone of the mosaic that is you is painted and engraved with
 your thoughts and actions, your passions, and things that you surround yourself with.
 Over time these things shape you as surely as you decide what you will allow in your life
 and what goals and dreams you will fight for.
 The so-called “minor” Arcana is a look at how we get where we want to go. It is who
 we are along the way, and it is the people we meet and interact with on our path. It is a
 representation of the sum total of our experiences and our reactions to them. Much like
 a hive of bees, the strength and beauty lies not so much in any one card, as it does in the
 harmony of concerted efforts of the totality working together to create the magical
 golden honey that is so highly prized.
A sneak peek at the royal family...
 As a preface to each suit, we will offer tidbits of additional information on the royal
 family of that suit and their place in the Arcana. We will also offer various trivia on life
 in the feudal hierarchy as it clarifies the individual “face cards.” Feel free to use or
 dispose of this information at your leisure. Trust the knowledge you have gained
 through study, but trust your instinct even more. Just don’t start a reading without
 knowing what the cards say to you.
 Fun nobility trivia
 The page: attendant to the squire, who, in turn, was the knight’s loyal and very personal
 servant.
 Around the age of seven, boys (usually of noble birth) were often put into service to a
 squire as the beginning of their training to (eventually) become knights themselves.
 They were taught etiquette, basic fighting, and were for the most part errand boys
 (cheap labor). Even so, the underlying lessons of all of the mundane tasks were of
 character so that the page would grow up to be a man of honor. So the Page as a card
 represents more than just a young person or a student, but one with strengths (and
 weaknesses, especially if the card is reversed) of their respective suit.
 In the case of the Page of Wands, these character strengths are often energy and drive,
 honesty, courage, and a sense of adventure, while the weaknesses are most likely to be
 impulsiveness, zealotry (fanaticism), exaggeration, and alpha tendencies of all sorts.
 When it comes to representing events or incidents, you can use some, all, or even “none”
 of the following general guide to interpreting what you see in the cards. As a rule,
 Knights infer physical action, movement, or travel, including the means of travel: they
 can represent cars, planes, trains, auto accidents or breakdowns (this is just one possible
 meaning for a reversed Knight as an example), whereas Pages illustrate messages
 (invitations, news), the act of studying, education, or preparations. Kings and Queens
 show decision makers, and/or their decisions.
 As to the ages of the court cards, don’t get locked into this, but as an example, you may
 choose to see the various “face cards” represent people of these general age groups
 below. Remember that aspecting and clarifying cards will help identify these people
 much more than guesswork.
 King: Adult male (or authority figure) generally over 30
Queen: Adult female (or authority figure) generally over 30
 Knight: Late teen to early adulthood, to age 30-ish (depending on maturity)
 Page: Child, pre-teen, tween, early teen (to age 13-15 at most, usually)
The House of Wands
 The House of Wands is populated with ambitious, active, enterprising people who may
 appear to others as domineering or hyper-competitive. These cards represent the self
starting energy that lends itself to leadership so easily. The overall theme we would like
 you to focus on when you see Wands cards is that of action, energy, ambition,
 competition, and aggression.
Ace of Wands
 (Prime Cardinal Fire)
 Description:
 The “hand of God” appears from a small cloud, holding a budding branch while leaves
 reminiscent of Hebrew yods gently fall. The sky is otherwise calm, a tranquil river
 crosses the flat plains in the background, and a large castle sits atop a hillside
 fortification. This image is static and symbolic, and ethereal.
 This card inherits its cardinality from being an Ace, or the first of the suit, and the suit of
 Wands is representative of the element of fire. This combination makes this a card of
 explosive energy.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ace (or One). Impetus, beginnings, or priority. Odd
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, virility, dominance, authority by
 might
 Direction: East. General beginnings. Mornings, dawn
 Element: Fire. Aggression, ambition, leadership, energy, competition
 Traditional meaning:
 First off, this is a very Aries card. Let’s cover this. The suit of Wands is equated with the
 metaphysical element of fire, and the number one is the “first” of anything. But take a
moment and really think about the whole “Aries” thing. Love ’em or hate ’em, not much
 would get done without Aries people and Aries energy. The whole point of Aries energy
 is “something from nothing” (never confuse that as something for nothing—a popular
 concept which in reality just does not exist). Before Aries there is nothing. “Zero,” or the
 null. Aries energy is the will imposing itself so forcibly on the universe that it simply
 springs into being. No other astrological sign can do that (sorry Scorpios). The sheer
 audacity required to say “I am!” and force yourself into existence is often downright
 barbaric, but it is the most powerful “impact” in all of reality. It is explosive and
 “pushy,” “rude,” and even “obnoxious,” but it is the only way to drag anything from the
 ether into “reality.” This card represents that wild, untamed, explosive energy that
 unleashes “new” onto the world. That “new” is often described by accompanying cards
 (“new” ideas, actions, beliefs, habits, cars, spouses, etc.), but this card is the catalyst to
 change. Keep that in mind when this card comes up in your spreads.
 This is the card of new beginnings, enterprises, calculated risks, or taking renewed
 action after a period of rest. It is the energy similar to the Sun in Aries (Spring) and is
 inspirational and highly motivational. This card also often signifies opportunities (that
 you have to jump at) and actions that require physical effort. All in all it is a very
 positive card, but it can be combative due to its emphatic and forceful energy.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 This is still a high energy card, but when it comes up reversed, expect conflict,
 disagreements, obstacles, and general mayhem in any new venture. Reversed, this
 card can also reveal a new direction in life (like being chased out of town by peasants
 armed with pitchforks!), so be ready to adapt, or leave, as necessary.
Two of Wands
 (Mutable Fire)
 Description:
 A wealthy merchant looks out over the sea from the parapets of his estate. This is a man
 of vision. He is successful and confident, and he is in the midst of planning a new
 venture. He holds the world in his right hand, and his left holds a staff. Behind him a
 staff is firmly anchored in place. The lands below are fertile and populated with civilized
 people. This image is active and pragmatic.
 This card is a direct, active response to the explosive creativity of the Ace of Wands. It is
 controlled action with a purpose.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Two. Response to initial stimulus. Battle plans, first steps. Even
 Suit: Wands. Controlled action, adventure, vitality, competition
 Direction: South-Southwest. Visionary thought. Late night
 Element: Fire. Optimism, ambition, leadership, channeled energy
 Traditional meaning:
 This is a card of beginnings and calculated risks, but instead of the spark of creativity
 or a burst of energy as seen in the Ace, this energy is a carefully planned effort to
 create a favorable outcome. This is the card of planning, coordinating, the will
applied to physical action: the “law of attraction” being applied. This a card of doing
 and waiting. Results will come later. Right now, plan carefully and act decisively.
 Gather allies and support if you can, as well.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Bad planning, or a complete lack of planning. Things NOT going at all according to
 plan, difficulties at the beginning of a venture, ideas without resources to put them into
 action. Possible weakness of will to take needed action (verify this by looking at
 associated cards). Reversed, this card represents “the curse of inconvenience,” which is
 an extremely powerful but subtle curse where countless “little things” just go wrong no
 matter what we do. Persist.
Three of Wands
 (Fixed Fire)
 Description:
 Late in the afternoon our friend from the 2 of Wands stands on a perch overlooking his
 ships at sea. His plans have produced results and even now his affairs are in motion.
 It’s not time to celebrate yet, but things go well. Very well.
 The energy of this card is fixed as it represents the management of ongoing activities
 toward an important goal. It represents “active waiting,” where circumstance, or the
 actions of others, move us closer to our goals, but we remain productive while these
 outside forces are working with us.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Three. Several people involved in this action, teamwork. Odd
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, productivity, progress
 Direction: Northwest. Governance, administration. Afternoon work stride
 Element: Fire. Courage, ambition, charisma, infectious and shared
 enthusiasm
 Traditional meaning
 This is an extremely fortunate card to draw, although it can be frustrating because as
 you look closely at the boats in the bay they are sailing away, indicating the successful
launch of a venture rather than the return (profits) of one. This card tells us that
 “things go well, keep going.” This card often appears when we are frustrated by a lack
 of “obvious results” and we need encouragement to persist. Other forces are at work
 and we must also apply our efforts intelligently while we are waiting for our results.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Expect delays. Also: problems getting resources or the cooperation of others. Possible
 sabotage by a team member of a project early on. Make sure that team members are
 working together and that energies are not scattered. Don’t sit around waiting for
 results or try to micro-manage the project at hand. Stop whining about “lack of
 progress” and do something.
Four of Wands
 (Prime Fixed Fire)
 Traditional meaning
 Life is good. A celebration is happening with musicians and dancing, feasting, and
 much merriment. The city fortress looms ominously overhead in the background,
 illustrating a powerful family in an era of prosperity. Flowers bloom and fruits ripen
 on garlands tied decoratively to staves planted into the foreground. Two women
 celebrate gaily with bouquets.
 This potent card combines the strength and rigidity of the square with the fiery ambition
 of the suit of Wands. The resulting energy is an impressive bastillion of success and
 resultant prosperity.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Four. Fixed, solid, reinforced binding, resilience. Even, square
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, conquest, fortitude, fortresses and
 safe havens
 Direction: Northwest. Generosity, fun. Warm, lazy afternoons
 Element: Fire. Dominance, self-governance, autonomy, summer, renewable
 energy
 Traditional meaning:
This is a prime empire card. The harvest is a good one and the fruits of labor are being
 enjoyed in a great feast. This is the time to celebrate. This card indicates parties and
 joyful gatherings of friends and associates. It also reflects the serenity of financial
 security, especially as a result of good long-term planning and careful application of
 efforts. This is not a card of action as much as it is a card of rest and recreation after
 much hard labor. Also: parties, a happy homelife.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Don’t start counting those chickens just yet. (They have yet to actually hatch!) Delays
 in payoffs and lost invitations are common here now (or worse, being excluded from
 celebrations). Possibilities of being disowned from the family fortune or losing one’s
 cushy lifestyle. Best to start saving and spend cautiously while things get sorted out.
 Watch your finances right now.
Five of Wands
 (Mutable Fire)
 Description:
 “Fight! Fight! Fight! Fight!...” You knew this had to happen. Life was too good in the
 house of ambition and drive. Here we simply have too much testosterone, and too much
 money and ease, which led to people carving out their own mini-empires. Five young
 men, all shouting, glaring, worrying, and examining their “staves” as they each test the
 limits of their power, or prepare to be set upon by others.
 Chaos meets ambition and excess energy in this card. The duality of the number five
 blends with fire to make times “interesting.”
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Five. Duality of essence: chaos and structure. Odd
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, sports, vitality, competition, duels,
 showdowns
 Direction: East. Conflict, competition. Early mornings, dawn
 Element: Fire. Aggression, ambition, ferocity, unrest, discordant energy
 Traditional meaning:
 Look closely at the players in this card. One man guards against another who makes a
 proclamation, while another looks up in worry. The central character wonders of the
quality of his staff and his destiny with it while the last holds his staff high in defiance
 so as not to be left out of the “fun.” Everyone has their own idea of how things should
 be done, and this is what happens when those ideas come into contact with each other.
 This card represents a madhouse, a situation that is devolving into a circus. Egos
 flare and while some work to find harmony, others prance and dance to their own
 tunes. Step lightly (or run!) at this time. Let cooler heads prevail.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 This is still not a very “positive” card, so remain vigilant. Usually this indicates a truce,
 or a rectification of earlier squabbles, but beware of political maneuvering and bruised
 egos looking for future opportunities to find vengeance.
Six of Wands
 (Fixed Fire)
 Description:
 Well, someone had to win, and now they get to lord their victory over others. This is the
 card of the celebrated hero, the conqueror with his battle parade marching in
 celebration. Note also that the staves in the background are held high and straight with
 pride. Neither rider nor horse is dressed for battle. They are garmented for public
 celebration. If this card represents you, then it is good to be you.
 This card is a reaction to previous events more than it is an original thought. It is a
 celebration of great deeds.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Six. Group empowerment toward commonality, recognition. Even
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, competition, public accolades
 Direction: South-Southwest. Nobility of character. Late night
 Element: Fire. Aggression, ambition, leadership, shared energy, mobs, riots,
 instigators
 Traditional meaning:
 Parades, accolades, victories, and celebrations of victories. If this card is an outcome,
 expect good things—and then expect a public spectacle of the victory. Possible raise,
promotion, awards won, public affection, and even perhaps a little boasting are bound
 to happen very soon. Occasionally this card also represents a leader rallying his
 or her troops, organizing for a major cause. If that is the case, the surrounding cards
 will support that notion quite clearly.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Ugh! All this work and does anyone notice at all? Sometimes you work, and work, and
 work, and of course someone else steals your thunder, your credit, or kisses up to the
 powers that be to make it look like they are the noble hero du jour. Time to buy
 yourself a cheap voodoo candle (or just grin and bear it). Occasionally this card may
 indicate outright defeat. Verify this before proceeding.
Seven of Wands
 (Fixed Fire)
 Description:
 A man stands defensively on the edge of a cliff, staff raised both to ward off attacks as
 well as to physically intercept them. His back is to the proverbial wall (or cliff) and he
 knows he has no choice left but to fight (or at least look menacing and determined
 enough to scare off his pursuers). We see their staves in the foreground, as a group, but
 so far not one has ascended to face this man personally.
 This is the card of active defense. It is fixed in nature, as it is the holding of a position
 against an imminent onslaught.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Seven. Signifies challenge to one’s beliefs, defensive preparations.
 Odd
 Suit: Wands. Physical action, vitality, competition, determination
 Direction: Northwest. Courage, fortitude. Afternoon
 Element: Fire. Aggression, defiance, making a stand, “second wind”
 Traditional meaning:
 “This may hurt a bit...” Sun Tzu advocates in The Art of War holding the higher ground
 in battle if one desires to be victorious. This may take the form of a mental process
(being smarter in battle), an emotional one (remaining calm while whipping your
 opponent into a frenzy), or a physical one (where you can throw rocks down on your
 enemies). This card indicates attackers ganging up on one who is above, more
 powerful, or better than they are (verify with other cards to discern which). The
 defender here has the advantage of the high ground, and the confidence and
 determination to win. Skill is also implied, foretelling victory after strife.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Don’t expect an easy victory. In fact, victory at all may not be possible along the
 present course. Sometimes it is best to retreat and find more solid ground.
 Occasionally, this card may indicate weakness or paranoia.
Eight of Wands
 (Mutable Fire)
 Description:
 Eight wands fly through the air. This may, in fact, be the most annoying Tarot card ever
 drawn. It has caused no small amount of confusion and consternation among teachers
 and students alike over the years. If the artwork of this card bothers you, you are in the
 vast majority. Nonetheless, it is generally a good omen.
 This card has no attachments and the staves are unanchored, and thus stated by all
 commentaries to be “in flight.” This bequeaths a sense of mutability or impermanence to
 the energies of these staves.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Eight. Cycle of completion, time for a change, travel, sudden
 movement. Even
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, competition, rebirth, change of
 location
 Direction: South-Southwest. Idealism, enthusiasm. Late night
 Element: Fire. Change, excitement, enthusiasm, optimism, “electric” energy
 Traditional meaning:
 Quick, sudden burst of energy and/or action. Adventure is afoot in the realm and there
is no time for rest or sloth. The flight of the staves indicates unified sources of action
 (unseen causes) leading to change and possible travel. Be ready to change, move,
 adjust, or fly (literally or even physically) at a moment’s notice. The alignment of the
 wands in this picture indicates a certain uniformity of action, so expect a reasonably
 orderly process rather than a chaotic mess. This is generally assumed to be a mildly
 lucky card.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Stagnation or missed opportunities. Not being able or ready to take action when
 fortune calls. Canceled plans or vacations, inconsistency in action. Reckless action
 taken without adequate forethought. Alternatively: scattered and wasted energies.
 If paired with any Sword card (but especially the 7 of Swords), this could indicate an
 ambush or even a call to retreat.
Nine of Wands
 (Fixed Fire)
 Description:
 A man stands watchful guard over a small forest of staves. The man is a veteran and has
 recently been called upon to defend his charge. He does not allow his bandaged head to
 serve as an excuse to abandon his post. He is tired and worn, but watchful, conserving
 his energy for a fight, or the duration of his watch, whichever comes first.
 Here we have another defensive card, yet, unlike the 7 of Wands, this is guard duty:
 protection of material possessions, rather than being accosted by upstarts.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Nine. Fruition of ideas and labors, waiting. Weapon or tool
 collection. Odd
 Suit: Wands. Strength, endurance, vitality, competition, total market
 dominance
 Direction: Northwest. Duty, honor, endurance. Storage sheds or silos.
 Afternoon
 Element: Fire. Determination, “turf,” defensiveness, reserve energy
 Traditional meaning:
 Dedication, trustworthiness, a sense of duty and the will to carry it out. Loyalty to a
cause. Endurance in the face of challenges. Victory through perseverance and
 determination. Inner strength and a solid conviction in one’s beliefs. A very worthy
 adversary. Also: physical or emotional “solid fortress” (bastillion). Something worth
 defending. Successfully defending your “stuff” (your beliefs, possessions, job, spouse, or
 anything that is in question) against all opposition. The person in question has
 backbone.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Weakness of character. Shifty and shifting alliances. Someone who tries to evade
 responsibility, or even deserts outright. Fear of standing up for what is most
 important to yourself or your needs. Escapism.
Ten of Wands
 (Mutable Fire)
 Description:
 A man is bent over in an effort to carry his burden of wands to the distant town. He is
 labored but shows no sign of quitting and uses his momentum to carry him toward his
 goal. His load of sticks is both valuable and an albatross around his neck. Whether
 harvest or punishment, the weight of the wands remains the same.
 This card is the fulfillment of a lifetime of efforts and energies along the path of Wands.
 From Ace to Nine our heroes have progressed to this point: the culmination and
 the reward of ambition and competition.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ten. End results. System reset. Sum total. End of the day. Even
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, endurance, competition, drive
 Direction: South-Southwest. Over-zealousness, travel. Late night
 Element: Fire. Aggression, ambition, refusal to quit, dominance, energy
 Traditional meaning:
 Be careful what you wish for. This powerful card reminds us, as does the 10 of Swords,
 that at the end of the day, all we have said and done catches up with us. The luxuries
 we crave are our burdens in turn. This man has “lots of sticks” but he has to carry them
to his destination or lose them. Success has a price, and you may have to bear it
 once you get everything you desire. Fame, power, and wealth are seldom what we
 thought they would be when we first started along our path. Know exactly what you
 want before you invest a lifetime pursuing it so that when you get it you are still happy
 to carry the load. This card shows heavy labor or emotional burdens one chooses (or is
 forced) to carry for a time.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Release of burdens or responsibilities. A weight being lifted off of your shoulders.
 Perhaps shirking responsibilities (check any aspecting cards to verify if this is so).
Page of Wands
 (Weak Cardinal Fire)
 Description:
 A young man dressed in the royal court’s yellow tunic holds up a staff for inspection.
 Overall, he looks to be pretty satisfied with his find. His stance and attire indicate a
 relaxed state, prior to a journey or adventure. The feather in his cap tells us that he is
 indeed at the beginning of his journey through life, but is schooled and experienced (at
 least enough to warrant the feather). Do notice though how his feather is just a lick of
 flame.
 This card is cardinal as it is instigatory, representing initiations, arrivals, or “edges of.”
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Page. Apprentice, attendant, student, youth, messenger
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, competition, verbal challenges
 Direction: East. General beginnings, taunts or threats. Early morning, dawn
 Element: Fire. Aggression, ambition, leadership, budding energy
 Traditional meaning:
 Pages are “catch-all” cards in readings. Most often this Page is used to indicate a
 male baby, or a young boy or girl with blonde hair. It can also indicate a young boy or
 girl of a Fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), news of, or an invitation to, a new
adventure, or even the study (apprenticeship) of an active or dangerous field of
 employment (firefighting, police work, sports, military school, etc.). If this Page shows
 up in a reading strongly associated with an Ace or a Queen, it often portends a birth. If
 this Page shows up in connection with The Empress, it almost assuredly represents
 pregnancy with a male child, or a baby who will be one of the Fire signs.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Unhappy news suddenly, arguments, unruly children, mild danger (if regarding any
 of the employment listed above), problems with pregnancy or small children. Rebel or
 minor rebellion. Also: Impotence.
Knight of Wands
 (Intense Mutable Fire)
 Description:
 “Mister Adventure.” The Knight of Wands is shown rearing his horse up on two legs.
 This controlled maneuver requires a lot of training between rider and mount, and is a
 highly symbolic announcement of action before action. It is also grandstanding. His
 feathers are symbolic of the fiery sexual energy that burns through his entire being. He
 is ever the “knight in shining armor” charging off to some adventure or danger to
 embrace. Something big is about to happen.
 This card is testosterone feeding the brain. The result is a need for action, danger, and
 fun.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Knight. Youthful, warrior, bravado, adventure, danger, machismo
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, competition, masculinity
 Direction: South-Southwest. Zealotry, travel, promiscuity. Late night
 Element: Fire. Aggression, ambition, leadership, energy, drive, testosterone
 Traditional meaning:
 “No time for explanations! We have to move now!... Okay, maybe a quick explanation,
 but then we have to take action!” This is a card of rallying. Swift, sudden movement,
decisive action, high adventure, sudden movement (especially “road trips”), impromptu
 vacations, hyperactivity, active, danger-seeking young men, “the hunt.” Occasionally this
 card pairs with the 6 of Swords or The Chariot to indicate travel, or relocation. This card
 can also be used to signify a young man with red hair or an aggressive/ impulsive
 personality, should you wish to do so.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Charging ahead without forethought. Impulsive behavior (usually detrimental),
 uncontrolled anger or sexual desires, bullying, domineering young “alpha” males.
 Also: abruptness of personality, rudeness, bad planning, grandstanding, attention
getting antics of little useful value. Need for public attention and validation.
Queen of Wands
 (Fixed Fire)
 Description:
 The Queen of Wands sits on her throne gazing off at some unknown point of interest,
 delicately holding aloft a sunflower in her left hand, and her staff of rulership in her
 right. A mangy black cat sits before her like a guardian.
 This is a queen whose passion is ruling, not intrigue and scandal. She rules comfortably
 from her stone throne and aspires to oneness with nature. She will always connect more
 to her animal side than her anima or any plant she cares for. She is fixed in her ways, as
 they work well for her kingdom.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Queen. Mother, boss, athlete, entrepreneur, coach, woman
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, competition
 Direction: Northwest. Honor, nobility, reliability. Mid-afternoon
 Element: Fire. Radiance, warmth, nobility, leadership, energy
 Traditional meaning:
 There are several ways to read the Queens. For ease and consistency (as well as
 accuracy), we strongly recommend the following. Queen of Wands: Aries, Leo, or
 Sagittarius woman. Primary characteristics are courage, assertiveness, confidence,
often open and friendly, outgoing, adventurous, honest, frank, resolute, reliable, hard
 working. Also could be used for any self-assured, pleasant woman, preferably with a
 strong fondness for animals and nature. Possible tomboy.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Same woman: (could be any of the following) Impatient, demanding, self-obsessed,
 intolerant, angry, flaky, drama queen, commanding or bossy, tactless, unfeminine,
 headstrong, tyrannical, fixed opinions.
King of Wands
 (Fixed Fire)
 Description:
 The King of Wands sits slightly forward on his throne, left hand clenched into a relaxed
 fist, as if he is looking for, even begging someone to step out of line in his kingdom. Even
 his pet lizard is attentive to the court in front of him. This man reeks action held in place
 only by duty, from his golden crown of flames to his staff which rests diagonally across
 him, ready to be flipped up into his left hand for a fight. His cape is thrown back on his
 left side to allow freedom of movement, should he need to jump up and attack someone.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: King. Boss, overlord, alpha-male, coach, athlete, authority figure
 Suit: Wands. Action, adventure, vitality, sports, military, options, and
 opportunity
 Direction: Northwest. Honor, nobility. Mid-afternoon
 Element: Fire. Ambition, courage, nobility, leadership, generosity,
 competition
 Traditional meaning:
 This is a “man’s man,” one of adventure, action, and machismo. Usually quick to anger
 with a fiery, intense personality, he is usually too impatient to invest his valuable time
 scheming. His way is direct, forceful, and to the point, so he is often honest simply from
the lack of cunning. Choose this card for a leader, a boss, or any highly-dangerous
 profession. Alternatively, you can use this card to represent any man of the Fire signs
 (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), a fiery-tempered man, or a redheaded man over 30.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Tyrant, rude, bully, domineering boss, violent criminal, self-obsessed megalomaniac,
 basically a real jerk. Could also represent a glory-seeking poseur masquerading as the
 positive side of this card. Alternatively, this card reversed could show possible
 misfortune to an otherwise good man if it is heavily aspected by negative cards in the
 reading.
A sneak peek at the royal family...
 As a preface to each suit, we will offer tidbits of additional information on the royal
 family of that suit and their place in the Arcana. We will also offer various trivia on life
 in the feudal hierarchy as it clarifies the individual “face cards.” Feel free to use or
 dispose of this information at your leisure. Trust the knowledge you have gained
 through study, but trust your instinct even more. Just don’t start a reading without
 knowing what the cards say to you.
 Fun nobility trivia
 The knight was more than a member of the king’s army. He was a field commander, a
 leader of men, and a rallying point. Therefore, he needed to be a hero. Unfortunately,
 heroes aren’t born. Heroes are forged in the fires of pain and tempered in the
 icy waters of sacrifice. You don’t get to be a hero by putting on a team jersey and
 getting paid millions of dollars a year to be “really good at a sport” (well, in the old days
 you didn’t). In the days of knights and kings, you had to get out there and hunt down
 groups of bandits and actually “win” when you fought (or else you were dead). You had
 to protect the peasants (the “common people”) and build an impressive list of deeds
 witnessed by credible persons. Moreover, when the king decided it was time to fight
 some other country, you didn’t get to stay home sick: you would fight whoever the king
 (or queen) pointed at whenever the fancy struck him (or her).
 Assuming you lived through all of that and had some impressive stories to tell, you got
 to train the sons of various noble families sent to learn from you (see “Page”). Because
 you had proven your character and skillat-arms, you were often granted a part of the
 king’s realm to govern (thereby saving him the chore of doing it himself). You gained the
 respect of men and the admiration of women, but in every way you had to earn this
 exalted position: You had to be of sterling moral character, a pious man, a brave and
 skilled warrior, wise enough to govern well when needed, compassionate to the poor,
 and relentless in your punishment of those who would harass or bully the people of your
 land. It wasn’t an easy job by any stretch of the imagination, which is why it was
 reserved for highly-trained professionals of noble character. But you did get a horse,
 which was a nice perk, because horses, especially the well-bred (and well cared-for)
 horses that knights got, ate a lot of food. Not everyone could own and properly care for a
 horse. You also had a squire (personal attendant) and a page to help you care for your
 horse, armor, weapons, and whatnot, which was nice.
 In the case of the Knight of Cups, character strengths are often highly emotional, which
 can be “good” (romantic, loyal, friendly) or “bad” (stalker, alcoholic, abusive) depending
on the person in question this is representing. Also, remember that Knights can also
 represent action (the act of doing, as related to powerful emotional states), travel or the
 means of travel (car, boat, plane), as well as young men. The problem with Knights is
 that they create a “gender gap” where young men are represented but young women
 are not. Usually Queens have traditionally taken up the slack, but if you would like to
 have the Knight of Coins and the Knight of Cups represent young women, that is fine as
 well.
 As to the ages of the court cards, don’t get locked into this, but as an example, you may
 choose to see the various “face cards” represent people of these general age groups
 below. Remember that aspecting and clarifying cards will help identify these people
 much more than guesswork.
 King: Adult male (or authority figure) generally over 30 
Queen: Adult female (or authority figure) generally over 30
 Knight: Late teen to early adulthood, to age 30-ish (depending on maturity) 
Page: Child, pre-teen, tween, early teen (to age 13–15 at most usually)
The House of Cups
 The House of Cups is populated with emotional, sensual, poetic, musical, and artistic
 people who may occasionally appear to others as whiny, controlling, manipulative, or
 needy. These cards represent the deep capacity for emotion that lends itself to nurture
 so easily, but can represent either compassion or hatred, depending on how these people
 perceive you. The overall theme we would like you to focus on when you see Cups cards
 is that of emotional response, intuition, and instincts (versus things like, say... “logic”),
 happiness and the lack thereof (when indicated), moodiness, and needs for things like
 security, comfort, friends, and food.
Ace of Cups
 (Cardinal Water)
 Description:
 The “hand of God” appears from a cloud, holding a fountain aloft for a dove to dip a
 Catholic communion wafer into. Water droplets shaped like Hebrew yods fall to the
 water below. The essence implied here is the absolute purity of the spiritual waters that
 are the source for all human emotion (the large body of water below).
 Being an Ace, this card is cardinal, or bold and forceful in leadership by nature, and the
 suit of Cups is representative of the metaphysical element of water, indicating spiritual
 purity (or lack thereof) and raw emotions.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ace (or One). Source, infusion, endless supply, origin(s). Odd
 Suit: Cups. Emotional capacity, need, fertility, receptacle
 Direction: North. Domesticity, matriarchy. Noon. Midday meal
 Element: Water. Spirituality, emotion, faith, inspiration, purity, instinct
 Traditional meaning:
 As with all Aces of the Tarot, this card reflects new beginnings, purity of form and
 purpose, and the elemental intensity required to successfully manifest something from
 nothing. This Ace, however, indicates the wellspring, or source, of what is to follow in
this suit. This places it parallel in prominence with any of the “major” Arcana cards.
 Easy interpretations are: anything new on an emotional level; love, hope, “a
 miracle cure” of any sort, a surge of happiness, a birth (likely a girl), engagement, or
 even a marriage (if aspected by the 2 of Cups, The Lovers, or other obvious indication).
 The deeper implications show a potential soul bonding, spiritual awakening or
 deep religious devotion, a peace offering in war, or a miracle offered (longshot hope).
 Being an Ace, this card is the essence of the suit of Cups without the burden of outside
 influence or representation. As such, all of the Aces can amplify the energy of similar,
 related cards. All Aces are amplifiers: they empower related and congruent card
 energies to illustrate powerful events and circumstances.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Depression. Unhappiness and malaise, potentially devastating news (with any Page,
 or Swords), loss of love, faith, or happiness. Separation from one’s personal source of
 inspiration and hope. Drug overdose in a medical spread or if aspected negatively by
 Sword cards or cards akin to the 5 of Cups. Poison.
Two of Cups
 (Intense Fixed Water)
 Description:
 Look closely at this card. Two become one here. The man wears a wreath of roses while
 the woman wears a laurel (traditionally a masculine adornment) in a sacred ritual of
 gender communion. This is soul bonding. Cups are exchanged and a peaceful cottage in
 the distance alludes to a happy family to come, but the true symbolism here are the twin
 serpents of curiosity and desire balanced below the lion’s head of nobility flanked by
 wings of purity of intent. This is not “ordinary love,” although this card often refers
 to its lesser, more commonplace form of companionship people enjoy.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Two. Elements joining together. Blended energies, covenants. Even
 Suit: Cups. Capacity for compassion, sharing, loyalty, friendship
 Direction: Southwest. Tantra, depth of commitment. Evening
 Element: Water. Spirituality, love, faith, seduction, chemistry, bonding agents
 Traditional meaning:
 Everyday meanings—A date, chance meeting, new romance, an engagement (if
 supported by enhancing cards), proposal or handfasting, agreement or truce between
 two parties, law settlement, or man asking woman out (he is approaching her).
Deeper meanings—Tantric union, soul mate card. Use this card in your meditations
 to attract the right person for you. Conversely, this card can indicate successful
 contract signings in business (if supported by Wands), conflict resolution (if supported
 by Swords), or a promotion, raise, or loan (if supported by Coins). This is a very lucky,
 or fortunate, card. It is also the physical manifestation of the concept of The Lovers
 “major” Arcana card.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Trouble in Paradise. A separation; two people going their own way, or refusing to
 hear each other out. Compassion dissolves into bitterness. Spurned love. Rejection. If
 coupled with the 3 of Swords, this card (reversed) specifically indicates infidelity.
Three of Cups
 (Mutable Water)
 Description:
 Three maidens dance happily together celebrating a good harvest. Adorned in wreaths of
 flowers and fruits, they gaily raise their cups high and hold bouquets of even more
 flowers. This card is disgustingly happy. Good friends, good food, good times,
 effervescent youth, and not a care in the world. Even the sky is a nauseatingly pleasant
 shade of baby blue. The only way one could possibly make this card any happier would
 be to paint smiley faces all over it.
 This card is the product of earlier efforts to create a state of serenity and peace, and is
 mutable in energy.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Three. Joyful union of many. Fertility. Positive results. Odd
 Suit: Cups. Capacity for understanding, need, desire, loyalty
 Direction: East-Southeast. Community, sisterhood. Late-night celebrations
 Element: Water. Felicity, emotional fulfillment, deep friendships, bonding
 Traditional meaning:
 This is the pregnancy card, especially with any Ace, any Page, or The Empress.
 Alternately it shows celebrations and parties, close friendships, and happiness among
like-minded people. If you draw this card, expect good things to happen. This card is not
 the victory itself; it is the victory dance. If following an illness or surgery, this card shows
 rapid and complete recovery. In aspect to any card it enhances the level of happiness by
 a factor of three.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 If you draw this card reversed, simply place it back in the deck and draw another card.
 Obviously you have made a mistake. If you stubbornly refuse to admit making a
 mistake, look carefully at the surrounding and aspecting cards in relation to this card.
 When reversed, this card reveals a deep unhappiness brought on by solitude,
 loneliness, abandonment, ruined plans, disappointment, alcoholism, drug addiction,
 withdrawing from society, and the loss of friends. It can also indicate excess hedonism
 in search of a “deeper connection” if it is aspected badly by insinuating cards.
Four of Cups
 (Prime Fixed Water)
 Description:
 A young man sits discontentedly under the shade of a tree on a pleasant day. Before him
 are three cups he can choose from, and if that weren’t enough, flying in the face of all
 probability, a fairy hand reaches out from a conveniently placed nearby cloud to offer
 him a “wish cup” of whatever he desires. Yet he resists, arms crossed in passive
 defiance. Or perhaps, like too many of us, he is merely asleep at the time, not realizing
 what wonders he is missing out on.
 Absolutely fixed. Our friend would not budge if the world stopped spinning suddenly.
 “S-s-some men, you just can’t reach...”
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Four. Resoluteness, emotional fortress, resistance, walls. Even
 Suit: Cups. Despondence, unmet needs, withdrawal, silence
 Direction: Southwest. Secrecy, inability to “open up.” Evening.
 Element: Water. Things hidden, depth of thought, meditation, astral travel
 Traditional meaning:
 Immovable object—Discontent (phase). Malcontent (person). It is hard to be this
 disappointed with life, but some people find ways to become so. This card represents
resistance to any help, advice, compassion, charity, or compromise. This is more
 than unhappiness. This is a solid wall one builds up around themselves and shuts the
 world out. It is absolute refusal to listen to, interact with, or even recognize the efforts
 of others. The subtext of this card is that everything has been offered to the person this
 card represents. Therefore, this card is supremely dependent on associated cards for
 causality. One cannot reach this state of withdrawal without reason or circumstance.
 Look closely for these reasons before offering up solutions.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 This is still not the most pleasant card, but it can indicate “coming out of one’s shell,” or
 a release from despondence and an ending of hiding away from the world.
Five of Cups
 (Mutable Water)
 Description:
 A man stands mourning his fortunes. His focus is on the three spilled cups (an obvious
 loss), but he either ignores, or cannot see, the two behind him. His modest estate lies in
 the distance, but before he gets there he has a bridge to cross, one that will force him to
 leave the scene of his loss, and in doing so leave behind a piece of him: his now shattered
 plans and expectations of what was to be.
 This card is simultaneously dependent on and also a reaction to unfortunate events. As
 such, it is both unpleasant and mutable in nature.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Five. Broken structure/routine. Forced changes. Odd
 Suit: Cups. Deep emotions, loyalty, regret, sadness, pain
 Direction: East-Southeast. Sacrifice, secret enemies. Just before dawn
 Element: Water. Resignation, despair, endure, propitiation, aby (penance)
 Traditional meaning:
 Sacrifice. This is a card of loss and of mourning. The loss itself is usually a very real
 and tangible thing (find what it is by looking at the aspecting and associated cards).
 The subtext of this card is hope, but respect the loss before dismissing it altogether. It is
quite possible that your client is feeling very strongly about their loss and is not ready
 to be told that “two out of five cups are still standing.” In time the loss will be left
 behind, and the mess will be cleaned. Perhaps that time is now. Proceed gently here in
 your advice: This card is not a total loss (see 10 of Swords), but it does entail emotional
 despair, and a need for support and healing.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Recovering from distant wounds and pain. Can also indicate a recovering alcoholic.
 It’s time to forget the past and take positive action. A renewing of faith after hard
 times. Courage against loss. “Damn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead!!”
Six of Cups
 (Cardinal Water)
 Description:
 A strangely dressed boy gives a cup filled with white, star-shaped flowers to a little girl.
 A guard makes his rounds off to the side. As far as these two are concerned, the world is
 at peace, home is at hand, and the sky is blue. What more could anyone ask for (except
 perhaps a nice cup of white, star-shaped flowers to brighten up one’s window sill)?
 This card is exactly what it looks like and very little more. It is a pleasant thing to
 experience, in a pleasant, secure, location, on a very pleasant day.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Six. Sharing, balance, enduring harmony. Even
 Suit: Cups. Consideration, trust, friendship, kindness
 Direction: North. Domesticity, nurturing, familial. Early afternoon
 Element: Water. Empathy, graciousness, serenity, care
 Traditional meaning:
 Much has been written about this card by various writers, and most of it is
 contradictory. The meaning of this card is the simple act of giving. This is one of the
 very few Tarot cards that illustrate children at all. Here, they are a visual stylus used
 to illustrate, or emphasize, the natural innocence of the act of giving without
expectation, machination, or hidden inference. This is a card of simple kindness
 that is all too rare in this world. No fierce battles are fought this day. No glories are
 won or honors bestowed. Expect a gift from a friend, or perhaps you will be the giver
 of gifts. This card can also mean a reunion with old friends.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Reversed, this card often indicates a longing for everything this card represents
 (upright). It also indicates stress, lack of close, deep relationships with considerate
 people, false friends, and a need for a deeper connection with “self.”
Seven of Cups
 (Cardinal Water)
 Description:
 A man stands in silhouette in apparent surprise and apprehension at the abundance of
 choices presented to him. Before him are life’s great choices: beauty (spouse), mystery,
 knowledge, glory, power, fame, wealth. Each is a temptation, but the subtext of this
 card is that his focus will become his destiny (as in “you take the good with the bad”). It
 is not “a choice of one” he faces, but rather a choice of how focused will he be, and at
 what cost?
 This card is cardinal, as it requires us to make choices now. Indecision is loss here.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Seven. Destiny, evolution, spiritual choices. Odd
 Suit: Cups. Desires, life choices, possibilities, wishes
 Direction: North. Indecision, emotional vacillation. Noon
 Element: Water. Fog (physical and mental), prognostication
 Traditional meaning:
 You have opportunities and possibilities before you. The world is at your feet (whether
 you know it or not), and you may even be overwhelmed by the choices you face now.
 But a choice is called for, and the clock is ticking. This is a very fortunate card as you
have options, but the pressure on you to choose and act may be overwhelming. Take a
 deep breath, do some quick research, decide what you want most from life right now,
 and “strike while the iron is (still) hot.” If you wait too long, the moment will pass, and
 the opportunity may be gone. “Choose; but choose wisely.”
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Reversed, this card most often indicates indecision, or worse, being paralyzed by the
 inability to choose. It can also indicate a lack of focus or not knowing what one wants,
 and occasionally it will indicate being forced into a decision against one’s will.
 Aspecting cards will clearly illustrate what is happening.
Eight of Cups
 (Mutable Water)
 Description:
 A man has placed his affairs in order and heads away to distant lands, and hopefully
 greener pastures. A note on the symbolism used in this card: Correct symbolism
 would show a full moon in the sky with a crescent moon reflected in the water, revealing
 his emotional desire for more from life (full moon) and the emptiness of his psyche’s
 current state (new moon).
 Nonetheless, his red cloak and boots illustrate he has clothed himself with purpose
 and resolve of action. He will not be coming back, no matter what he finds over the
 distant mountains he must traverse. This card is a reaction to a life of unhappiness and,
 therefore, is mutable.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Eight. Cycle of completion, time for a change. Even
 Suit: Cups. Unfulfilled needs, desires and longings, change
 Direction: East-Southeast. Escape, travel, greener pastures. Pre-dawn
 Element: Water. Spiritual needs, vision quests, solitude, withdrawal
 Traditional meaning:
 “I’m taking my ball and I’m going home!” Sometimes it seems like anything has got to
be better than what you have now, and you just get the urge to go find out. You may
 (from all outward appearances) have everything you want in life, but inside you feel
 the need to get away from everything and scrub your soul clean. This is different from
 the 4 of Cups, as it is a need for something different and taking action on it, versus
 shutting everyone out. This card indicates life changes: a move across state, country,
 or even continent, a relocation for a new job, a new career; but changes you make
 from a deep desire to get away from where you are now. Much clarity can be found by
 looking at aspecting cards.
 NOTE: If you really want to get snooty (although we prefer the term “precise”), this card
 indicates travel over land, whereas the 6 of Swords illustrates travel over water, and the
 8 of Wands suggests travel by air. This comes in handy when planning a vacation.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Inability to leave a bad situation. Imprisonment or a situational mess that needs to be
 resolved or “cleaned up” before you can make progress toward your goals.
Nine of Cups
 (Mutable Water)
 Description:
 A well-fed man sits contentedly on his bench posing before his collection of nine cups.
 His future is assured and he knows it. There is more to be had from life, but he is smart
 enough to know when to get off of the merry-go-round and say, “I have my health and
 my wealth, and I am going to spend the rest of my days enjoying what I have. I leave the
 rest of life’s temptations and treasures to you.” He is downright smug in his striped
 shirt, fancy red cap (of pride), and folded arms.
 This card is mutable because it is dependent upon other actions to bring it into reality. It
 is most often a results card or one indicating a state of being.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Nine. Fruition of hopes and dreams, manifestation. Odd
 Suit: Cups. Emotional satiation, being fulfilled, abundance
 Direction: East-Southeast. Jupiter in Pisces—dreams can come true
 Element: Water. Happiness, indulgence, comfort, dreams
 Traditional meaning:
 This is the fabled “wish card.” It represents getting almost everything you want,
 “quitting the game on top,” and taking your winnings home. You win! This is you
getting your wish, or living your passions (ideally this is what the 8 of Cups leads to),
 or just being supremely happy with what you have and not needing to toil or risk to
 gain anything more. This is an idealistic card of satiation and sensual pleasure, so it is
 a good idea to have a clear vision of your wish before you have it delivered.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Some argue that “too much of a good thing can be bad.” If by that they mean too much
 indulgence in wine, food, luxury, and ease of life, they may be right; at least as far as
 this card offers in reverse. Beware of the “sugar crash” brought on by too much
 indulgence: unhappiness, and possible health issues. Also indicative of unfulfilled
 wishes and dreams.
Ten of Cups
 (Mutable Water)
 Description:
 A man and his wife enjoy the splendor of their own personal rainbow high overhead
 their cottage estate. It looks as if our friends from the 2 of Cups actually made it work as
 a couple, and now they have two happy and healthy children to add to their family bliss.
 This is life as it should be. Life, love, and enough land to be able to enjoy the view.
 This is the end of the road along the path of Cups. It is the “happily ever after” card, and
 is one of the very best cards you can draw from the deck.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ten. End results. System reset. Sum total. Even
 Suit: Cups. Contentment, emotional needs, longevity
 Direction: East-Southeast. Jupiter in Pisces—dreams can come true
 Element: Water. Emotional security, faith, family, hopes and dreams
 Traditional meaning:
 It’s hard to find a more pleasant scene than this one. While there are no extravagant
 displays of wealth found in other cards, or accolades tossed about, it is hard to beat
 lasting love, health, and genuine serenity. This card indicates a happy marriage, a
 happy home, a stable family, and good friends.
Unlike the 9 of Cups, this “ending” is less sensually oriented, less personally indulgent,
 and more communally centered, representing a larger base of happiness, with a longer
 endurance.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Broken dreams. Illusion of happiness. Disruption of the home. Loss of security or home
 ownership. Broken marriages and dysfunctional families.
Page of Cups
 (Weak Cardinal Water)
 Description:
 A stylish young man dressed primarily in blue and pink poses poetically as he listens to
 the fish who resides in his cup dispense valuable, but routine, wisdom. His casual,
 matter-of-fact demeanor at being lectured to by his scaly friend belies their long
standing acquaintance, symbolizing his acceptance of the creative voices in his head
 occasionally presenting him with tidbits of life advice.
 This card is cardinal and indicative of the gentle whispers of creative inspiration and
 psychic awareness.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Page. Apprentice, attendant, student, youth, messenger
 Suit: Cups. Creativity, psychic awareness, artistic talent
 Direction: North. Emotional nature, inspiration. Noon. Light lunch
 Element: Water. Birth weight, imagination, subconscious mind
 Traditional meaning:
 Keeping in mind that Pages have numerous meanings, this particular card can
 represent the birth of a baby girl, or a Cancer, Scorpio, or Pisces baby of either gender
 if aspected by other pregnancy cards, or in direct response to a pregnancy-related
question. Otherwise, usual meanings include psychic flashes, artistic impulses, musical
 talent (or study), or even artistically gifted children. This Page also often indicates
 “good news” regarding some part of the reading. Due to the various possibilities all
 Pages can represent in a reading, it is best to read around them at first to glean what
 meaning this particular card will take.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Lack of creativity, depression, anxiety, hearing voices in one’s head (not the “good
 kind”), possible autism, low birth weight, unhappy childhood (if representing the past).
 Also: drug overdoses, alcoholism, or conversely simple indigestion. This is why you
 really need to verify what you see in aspecting cards or by opening up cards before
 you start handing out advice.
Knight of Cups
 (Fixed Water)
 Description:
 The Knight of Cups is in no rush today. He patiently approaches a wide river bisecting a
 stretch of desert, ignoring the heat of the day, his heavy armor, and his plodding pace.
 He reins his horse in tightly, to the point that the horse cannot even lift her head. His
 mount is not at all happy about this and shows it by laying her ears flat, kicking up her
 back leg mid-stride* and bobbing her head. But the Knight pays no attention to this, as
 all of his attention is firmly planted on keeping the contents of his cup in his cup.
 His fixed nature fortifies his stern resolve.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Knight. Youthful, protector, chivalry, self-discipline
 Suit: Cups. Quests, sense of duty, high-mindedness, patience
 Direction: Southwest. Obsession, dedication to a cause. Evening
 Element: Water. Inner turmoil, deep emotions, cautious, obsessive
 Traditional meaning:
 This cards represents a young man with the ability to focus or obsess completely on a
 task at hand. In this card he is focusing on keeping his drive and emotions under
 control and contained. This card often refers to men who are either “emotionally
unavailable” or simply cautious (as compared to the reckless Knight of Swords or the
 high-spirited Knight of Wands). This card also indicates an average or better intellect
 and strong musical or artistic talents. This card can represent entering into any
 relationship slowly and with caution.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Obsessive, jealous man, one ruled by his emotions. Generally unreliable and
 dishonest. If you are in doubt as to the character of this man, use much caution in
 dealing with him.
 * Horses walk with three of their hooves on the ground at all times. This knight is
 restraining his own biological urges even as his body tries to rebel from his obsessive
 self-control.
Queen of Cups
 (Mutable Water)
 Description:
 A fair-haired woman sits on her seaside throne staring intently at an ornate cup of
 Eastern design, with handles topped with standing angels whose wings are arched far
 over their heads. Her cup is far more intricate than any other in the entire Tarot and
 illustrates the complexity of her emotions. She is examining herself at the moment, lost
 to the private realms of introspection.
 Her external nature is mutable and passive as she exists more within the confines of her
 mind than she does the physical world.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Queen. Mother, artist, writer, artist, designer, woman
 Suit: Cups. Capacity for understanding, need, desire, loyalty
 Direction: East-Southeast. Psychic, sensitive, ethereal, imaginative
 Element: Water. Spirituality, emotion, faith, inspiration, visions
 Traditional meaning:
 This is the card of an emotionally sensitive woman, usually gifted either with some
 level of psychic abilities or a strong creative talent: artistic, musical, or design. Her
 primary traits are her imagination, sensitivity to the needs and desires of others, her
caring nature, and love of animals or nature. Astrologically, use this card to represent
 Cancer, Scorpio, or Piscean women.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 The Queen of Cups reversed indicates a woman whose emotions tend to escape her
 control on a regular basis. Additionally, her sanity may come into question. Potential
 for drug or alcohol abuse. Potentially jealous, unreliable, dishonest, and dangerous to
 herself and those around her. Approach with caution.
King of Cups
 (Cardinal Water)
 Description:
 We find the King of Cups on his throne not on the shore, like his queen, but far out at
 sea. The waters out here are ever turbulent and toss ships around like toys, but not a
 drop stains the monarch’s robe. A fish jumps out of the water in the background, but his
 eyes are focused off in the distance and he sits on the edge of his throne at a pronounced
 angle, one foot forward, as if he’s ready to make a move at any moment.
 This man’s spirit is as cardinal and restless as the waters surrounding his throne.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: King. Priest, artist, author, cook, fisherman, sailor
 Suit: Cups. Psychic, religious, loyal, family man, friendly
 Direction: North. Hard worker, provider, creative. Noon
 Element: Water. Spirituality, emotional depth, possessive, security
 Traditional meaning:
 Notice this man’s posture. This is a solid key to understanding him. Behind those eyes
 rage a storm of emotion, just like the fish behind him who finds that the entire sea can’t
 contain him. This man is restless and energized with emotion. Supportive man with
 good character. Highly creative and could well be psychically or artistically gifted. A
passion burns deep within him, and whether he releases it or not is a measure of his
 character. Astrologically this card represents Cancer, Scorpio, or Pisces men.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 The King of Cups reversed is a shifty devil. His word is not to be trusted as his mind
 (and loyalties) changes with the tide of his emotions. Potential alcohol and drug abuse,
 also often emotionally unstable. Before having any serious dealings with this man,
 ensure that you have done some investigative research to determine the extent of his
 character flaws and how they affect you.
A sneak peek at the royal family...
 As a preface to each suit, we will offer tidbits of additional information on the royal
 family of that suit and their place in the Arcana. We will also offer various trivia on life
 in the feudal hierarchy as it clarifies the individual “face cards.” Feel free to use or
 dispose of this information at your leisure. Trust the knowledge you have gained
 through study, but trust your instinct even more. Just don’t start a reading without
 knowing what the cards say to you.
 Fun nobility trivia
 The queen is an interesting part of the royal family unlike any other. She is both
 sovereign (leader) and wife to her king, except when she is unmarried (see Queen
 Elizabeth I, arguably one of the best queens in recorded history). But most queens are
 married and have children. This means she is wife and mother, and shares this
 commonality with the backbone of her kingdom: that being the wives and mothers
 of her “king’s men.” She may not have to till the field and milk the cows, and such like
 that, but she is still both representationally and, in fact, a mother and has the
 appropriate duties to perform as well as those of reigning monarch and socialite (when
 you are the queen every foreign dignitary wants to befriend you—especially if you are
 “hot”).
 This is a complex social position requiring a complex (and usually highly intelligent)
 woman. Oh sure, history is littered with queens who fell short of their people and their
 “job responsibilities,” but they are far outweighed by the unsung heroines of countries
 and empires, the women who “stood beside” their emperors and kings (who usually got
 the “lion’s share” of the glory in the history books). All of that makes this a particularly
 complex card. This card (the Queen of any suit) has to indicate a woman, a boss, a
 woman of certain character qualities (or when reversed possibly a woman who lacks
 those redeeming qualities in relation to the spread), and/or a female of a specific age
 range. Queens usually need to be clarified if there is any vagueness in the reading. Most
 of the time your Queens will refer to women who possess (or do not) the qualities of the
 suit in question.
 In the case of the Queen of Swords, these character strengths are usually decisiveness,
 inner strength and personal authority, intelligence, responsibility, and clarity of
 thought. Weaknesses (if reversed) show up as aggressiveness, maliciousness,
 heartlessness, cunning, ill-tempered, selfish, and rude.
 As to the ages of the court cards, don’t get locked into this, but as an example, you may
 choose to see the various “face cards” represent people of these general age groups
below. Remember that aspecting and clarifying cards will help identify these people
 much more than guesswork.
 King: Adult male (or authority figure) generally over 30
 Queen: Adult female (or authority figure) generally over 30
 Knight: Late teen to early adulthood, to age 30-ish (depending on maturity)
 Page: Child, pre-teen, tween, early teen (to age 13–15 at most usually)
The House of Swords
 The House of Swords is populated with highly ambitious, domineering and/or deceptive
 people who delight in causing others pain. Most of the family members of this house are
 corrupt and amoral. The rest suffer at their hands. This suit represents “at face value”
 many of the woes society faces from its most unenlightened populace. However, this suit
 also represents the element of Air, which has nothing to do with violence and treachery
 inherently. The meanings of this suit are taken “at face value” as they were originally
 designed, allowing for cross-interpretation on an “as-needed” basis.
Ace of Swords
 (Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 The “hand of God” appears from a cloud, grasping a short, stout sword upright encircled
 at its tip by a gold crown of rulership draped with a frond of palm and a branch of olive.
 The lands below are desolate and barren, with harsh, jagged edges slicing angrily into
 the tepid sky. Six blazing yods of fire dance above the guard of the sword indicating
 righteous valor.
 This card inherits its cardinality from being an Ace, or the first of the suit, and the suit of
 Swords is representative of violence, deception, victory and defeat, change, and
 conversely: the element of Air.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ace (or One). “No other...” Fanaticism, tyranny, authority by force.
 Odd
 Suit: Swords. Violence, decisiveness, dominance, force of will, courage
 Direction: West. Leadership, a rallying point, justice, balance, purity. Sunset
 Element: Air. Change, unpredictability, swiftness, sharp intellect, acerbic wit
 Traditional meaning:
 This card predicts victory against any obstacle and dominance over all adversaries
through aggression. It’s hard to imagine any Tarot card being more phallic, or more
 metaphysically worshipful of the male anatomy. God himself decrees virility über alles
 here. This card indicates the rise of a new order, a new power, or leader, usually by
 force, or force of will. It also foretells the onset of conquest, challenges issued, macho
 displays of testosterone, and righteousness. This card further reveals a lack of fear that
 is downright religious in its zeal. This is a very powerful card to have on your side. As
 a “result,” it shows a decisive victory.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Among professional readers this is quietly referred to as the real death card. This
 indicates sharp, sudden violence and defeat, usually accompanied by vehement
 rage. Before you accept this, be sure to verify any and all aspecting cards.
Two of Swords
 (Fixed Air)
 Description:
 A woman sits on a plain stone bench, blindfolded and holding two large swords crossed
 high over her shoulders. The image suggests the lady Justice. In fact, this woman is
 guarding the fertile, life-giving ocean behind her. Her blindfold reveals that she allows
 no one to pass; without prejudice. The crescent moon further illustrates the restriction
 of the feminine, and of the vast emotional storehouse held within.
 This is a highly defensive card and is of a fixed nature.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Two. Opposing forces, diverging ideologies, indecision. Even
 Suit: Swords. Defensiveness, force of will, restriction, crossroads
 Direction: Southeast. Defiance, headstrong, opposition to any use of force.
 Late night
 Element: Air. Harsh winds, harsh words, restriction of emotions
 Traditional meaning:
 There is no winning here. The balance created is a thinly veiled stalemate where no
 meaningful action can take place. This card indicates an impasse. Without some sort of
 compromise there will be no progress, no real or lasting peace, and certainly no
possibility of effective change. Everything is at a standstill. Additionally, parties
 involved are defensively engaged, unwilling or unable to let their defenses down and
 expose themselves emotionally or to any new ideology that will precipitate a
 breakthrough. This card foretells labor disputes or negotiations breaking down. In
 artistic or literary endeavors it indicates creative or writer’s block.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Swords are sheathed and hands come out to grasp each other in agreement (in the
 ancient rite of checking to make certain that the other’s hands are indeed devoid of
 sharp objects as well). Settlements are reached, and action can proceed. The
 “creatively dead” come back to life as fresh new ideas come suddenly and in force.
 Breakthroughs in research. Critical problem solving. Ancient secrets are revealed.
Three of Swords
 (Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 A healthy, plump red heart, full of zest for life and love for everyone and everything is
 viciously stabbed, not once, but three times (three being the number of repetition
 designed to illustrate that something is utterly and completely done and all duties
 fulfilled: as in the term threefold).
 And it’s raining.
 This attack on the defenseless innocent is cardinal (decisive and forceful) in nature and
 excessive due to the suit’s nature.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Three. Multiple people involved, triangles. Odd
 Suit: Swords. Pain, savage attacks, emotional cruelty
 Direction: West. Affairs of the heart, romantic liaisons. Sunset
 Element: Air. Fickleness, drama, scorn, inconsistency
 Traditional meaning:
 Ouch.
Emotionally speaking: heartbreak, despair, despondence, depression,
 betrayal but by someone very close to you, abandonment, jealousy, infidelity.
 “Love triangle.”
 Verbally, literally: slander, libel, public humiliation, lawsuits, breach of
 contract, severe arguments with loved ones, rejection, treason, blasphemy.
 Physically: heart attacks, stroke, blood diseases. See a doctor—now.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Swift, healthy recovery after surgery, rectifications of injuries sustained, emotional
 healing after brutal heartache, restitutions offered under command of authority
 figures.
Four of Swords
 (Fixed Air)
 Description:
 A small chapel of a keep holds the final resting place of a valiant knight, presumably to
 whom the family is indebted. His effigy is carved in stone on the lid of his sarcophagus.
 A replica of his personal sword is carved on the side of his sarcophagus to serve him in
 the afterlife. Three swords are mounted on the wall above, next to a stained-glass
 window set high in the wall to bathe his monument in late-afternoon sun at the end of
 the day. This is a high honor bestowed only on a handful of men at arms. It simply is not
 possible, nor cost-effective, to go to the efforts to do this for everyone.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Four. Rest, structure, Masons, honor. Even
 Suit: Swords. Valor, warrior, war memorials, statues, recouping from injuries
 Direction: Southeast. Public places, service to humanity. Late night
 Element: Air. Stillness, silence, stagnant, eulogies and inscriptions
 Traditional meaning:
 This is not a card of death (there are several of those already—if this were yet another
 card of death, that would be redundant). This card symbolizes a few different but
 related fixed energy concepts. Most often it shows a rest after protracted effort: a
 retirement, or putting something to rest finally. It could also indicate rest after
surgery. An alternative set of meaning is that of legacies, monuments, and honors
 bestowed rather belated. This card could indicate an inheritance if aspected by any of
 several cards. Physical locations indicated are quite naturally funeral parlors, crypts,
 and the morgue. Occasionally this will indicate actual funerals.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Dishonor. Someone is digging up the past, or things that are better left alone. No rest
 from prying eyes and searching hands. Lack of recognition for one’s efforts and deeds.
Five of Swords
 (Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 A red-headed young man grins wickedly over his shoulder at his vanquished foes. He
 holds two swords he has recently added to his own collection, and two more swords lie
 carelessly dropped on the ground before him. The man is a petty tyrant, one of no
 consequence, except that individually he has intimidated, or beaten, others into
 submission. His will dominates theirs and thus everyone’s destiny changes.
 This act of bullying is cardinal, even though all action has ceased since any possible
 opposition has surrendered the means to do so.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Five. Disorder, vigilantism, disruption of plans. Odd
 Suit: Swords. Violence, intimidation, oppression, dominance
 Direction: West. Ego validation through others. Early evening
 Element: Air. Change in direction, verbal challenges, threats
 Traditional meaning:
 Open intimidation by a bully. Physical, mental, or verbal assault by someone who
 carries the need within themselves to dominate others in order to gain self-worth. This
 intimidation may be due to actual skill, or it may be empty words and posturing. What
matters is the effect it has. Verify the actuality of the threat by opening up the card,
 and comparing this card to aspecting cards. Note the high winds blowing on the bully
 that do not affect any of his victims. The rage that blows the clouds across the sky feeds
 his ego but does nothing to soothe or invigor those who have given up their hope. This
 card can also show weakness among the masses (fear of a dictator or “strong leader”).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 An end to subjugation, freedom from oppression. Conflict resolution comes after
 someone has the nerve to stand up to false authority. More than likely this will be a
 concerted (team) effort rather than any one individual (e.g., David vs. Goliath).
Six of Swords
 (Mutable Air)
 Description:
 A ferryman poles his skiff across a short distance of water. His cargo today is a woman
 and her child, leaving for the distant shore. The water on his right is choppy and
 agitated, but the waters on his left are placid all the way to his destination. The swords
 in the boat coupled with the woman’s hunched over, hooded countenance in contrast to
 the ferryman’s light clothing indicate her taking flight from oppression. Vaguely
 reminiscent of Charon of Greek mythology who ferried the recently dead (who could
 pay) safely to the lands of Hades, where all rest eventually, thus leaving discord and
 entering harmony.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Six. Creating order from chaos. Even
 Suit: Swords. Retreat, seeking allies, regrouping
 Direction: North-Northeast. Short trips, sudden travel. Late morning
 Element: Air. Change in plans, disappearing, taking flight
 Traditional meaning:
 Journey by water. This could be a move or a vacation, but given the nature of the suit
 of Swords, this would more often point to an escape, or separation (from an abusive
 spouse for example), or a relocation from a poor economy or other harsh
environments to safer locales. This card is similar to the 8 of Cups, except that (aside
 from a journey over water versus land) this image implies leaving in something of a
 hurry, and things left behind. In the 8 of Cups the man has set his affairs in order
 before skipping town. Here the woman did not even have time to pack. The symbolism
 of the mother and child alone also suggests leaving without a spouse.
 Special note: One half of the Laws of Attraction and Repulsion paradigm is “the Law of
 Repulsion.” This card exemplifies this energy in action as the ferryman (Captain of the
 ship—e.g., the brain, will, magical efforts and workings, and so forth. For vastly
 extended information on this please consult your local mystery school or apply to ours
 when we are accepting students.) pushes away from the experienced* turbulence
 toward the calmer waters of distant shores. Motivationally speaking this is “moving
 away from,” whereas the other half of the law (most commonly known as “attraction” or
 seduction of) is “moving towards.” (Here see the hidden meaning of the 7 of Cups.)
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Journey or escape is delayed. No way out of the present situation. Being forced to
 endure current circumstances or make changes from within the system rather than
 running away. Possibly returning to the location of previous despair for whatever
 reasons.
 *(experienced) When you are working your Laws of Attraction and Repulsion exercises
 you will find your ability to manifest your desires quickly and easily strengthened by
 the act of experiencing versus a simple visualization. Anything “experienced” fully will
 resonate a much greater force to pull or push away from, but does not need to be
 “physically” a reality. By carefully developing your imaginative capacity and your skill
 with “visualization aids,” you will often gain the benefits of “experience” without the
 burden of direct active physical stimulus. Ask your teacher for help with this if you need
 to.
Seven of Swords
 (Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 A thief cautiously makes his way from a war camp, taking the swords of his enemies
 from their armory, thus reducing their ability to do his people damage. As risky as this
 venture is, the warriors in the background do not seem to notice him. It looks as if the
 day is his after all.
 Please Note: Aleister Crowley labels this card (in his Thoth deck) “Futility,” which shifts
 the protagonist from the thief to the band of warriors in the background. This changes
 the implications of this card from action, to being acted upon.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Seven. Luck is on your side, changes of fortune. Odd
 Suit: Swords. Deception, dangerous professions, pride
 Direction: West. Passive aggression, misdirection. Early evening
 Element: Air. Adapting to circumstance, clever ideas, impulse
 Traditional meaning:
 The easiest association is a thief in your camp. A false friend, backstabbing and
 machinations against you by cowards, outright theft, and general deception. Usually
 this is the case. In more esoteric readings this card will indicate some clever action
taken to circumvent an existing situation for personal gain, or the act of using an
 oppressor’s own words or devices against them, and getting away with it. In any case
 this card almost always deals directly with the issues of deception and schemes or
 manipulation. Check all of the cards that aspect this, and compare them carefully to
 your client’s question to ascertain how this card fits in. Usually the answer will be
 fairly obvious.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 The return of stolen merchandise or “borrowed” items, uncovering of plots and
 conspiracies, “the bad guy gets caught.” Conversely: unfounded accusations and
 paranoia.
Eight of Swords
 (Fixed Air)
 Description:
 A young woman stands bound and blindfolded on a featureless flat plain. She is
 surrounded by eight swords and the wind slashes at her. In the background, set high on
 a rocky cliff, sits the fortress house of a powerful lord, perhaps her oppressor. She
 cannot escape, as she cannot see where to go. She cannot see because her eyes are
 covered tightly. She cannot remove her blindfold because her hands are tied. So even if
 she takes a few steps, she will most likely fall in the mud she stands in now.
 The energy of this card is stagnant. Fixed.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Eight. Containing structure, prison, strong walls, lack of progress.
 Even
 Suit: Swords. Constriction, imprisonment, bondage, solitude, inaction
 Direction: Southeast. Opposition to the ruling elite. Late night
 Element: Air. Strong winds, quiet time, time to reflect on life, sensory
 deprivation
 Traditional meaning:
 This card obviously illustrates being trapped in a situation. Incarceration, feeling
emotionally closed off, creatively stifled, being held hostage by unseen forces (most
 often a mediocre job, few viable options for betterment, trapped in a bad marriage,
 etc.). But the thinly veiled underlying message behind this card is that all of these
 possibilities are merely the totality of a wall of stone that surrounds you at this time.
 To effect your escape from this imprisonment certain stones must be removed. To take
 down a wall quickly and easily only a few select stones need to be removed for the
 weight of the wall to collapse in on itself. You don’t have to take each and every stone
 down by hand. This card is a wake-up call to selectively remove things from your life
 that are collectively causing greater harm than they could individually.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Escape or release from anything that has been holding you down so far. A chance for
 freedom is coming. Re-entering society.
Nine of Swords
 (Mutable Air)
 Description:
 A person sits up in bed, having woken from a horrible dream only to find that the bed
 they have made for themselves is steeped in violence and bloodshed. The blanket that
 covers them is decorated with roses intermittent with the symbols of the zodiac. Many
 swords loom overhead, but unlike Damocles, they do not point directly at her. The
 part of the bed frame that lies exposed shows a woodcut of one man running through
 another with a sword in the forest.
 As a reaction to events already passed, or of even worse to come, this card is mutable.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Nine. Culmination, subconscious mind saturation, overwhelming
 fear. Odd
 Suit: Swords. Emotional pain, fear, worry, implied threats, nightmares, regrets
 Direction: North-Northeast. Over-analyzing, anxiety. Late morning
 Element: Air. Uncertainty, difficulty breathing, banshees, insomnia
 Traditional meaning:
 Anxiety, concern over matters that seem to be out of your control, nightmares, and
sleepless nights, or inability to sleep due to a physical condition. Overwhelming stress,
 despair over events passed or yet to come (compare this to your client’s question),
 emotional pain, even general paranoia. Worries may be unfounded. You will have to
 sort through the reading to find if this is the case or not. This is a card of culmination:
 these feelings did not simply appear from “nowhere.” Look for the root causes of this
 effect to locate the solution. Occasionally this card may even represent an
 uncomfortable bed or sleeping arrangement.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Emotional release. Letting go of old pain and moving on. A release of tension that you
 can physically feel. You have endured great stresses and now the causes of those are
 being lifted. It’s time to forget the past and create new, better memories.
Ten of Swords
 (Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 Under a dismal coal-black sky of clouds, so thick they completely block out any sunshine
 or happiness, a man lies in his own blood, impaled by ten swords, all of which were
 conveniently delivered to his back. It seems that his past deeds have finally caught up to
 him. Too bad for his attackers; he left a clue to their identity.
 Something happened to this man. Something forceful, sudden, and with enough will and
 determination to change his life forever. Thus the energy of this card is unmistakably
 cardinal.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ten. Endings and evolution. System reset. Results. Even
 Suit: Swords. Violence, deception, rage, betrayal, hidden enemies, injuries
 Direction: West. Revenge, mob justice, retaliation. Early evening
 Element: Air. Change, storms, “clearing the air,” death rattle, character
 assassination
 Traditional meaning:
 Live by the word, die by the sword. This is the undoing of a person. In extremely rare
 cases it may be the assault of an innocent; but as this is the summation of a life sworn
to the fair and impartial virtues of the sword, the fait accompli visited upon this person
 is usually somehow apropos. This card is not a judgment on a person. It is an action
 befalling them, but this card rarely comes out when it has not been earned. In the case
 where it has honestly not been (earned karmically), this represents the analogous
 “death of a thousand cuts” or slightly less known, but more appropriate, “curse of
 inconvenience.” The old saying that starts with, “Ever have one of those days...?” This
 card indicates one of those days (or weeks, months...) where it just seems like any tiny
 thing that can be an annoyance suddenly decides that you look like the perfect target
 for their aggression. In this case, the actual damage is much less than in other
 interpretations of this card (see above), but the real and complete damage is the
 incessant pin-pricking to the point of throwing you into a frenzy of anger and
 carelessness so that you ended up doing incalculable damage to yourself and your
 future, especially in ways that you cannot see.
 Additionally: Absolute betrayal, financial ruin, treachery, overthrow by many hands. All
 of these may be physical or emotional, and they may apply to situations, as well as
 people (e.g., the sudden, ugly ending of a covenant, relationship, or business). Finally,
 this card may indicate chronic back pain or back surgery.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Dodging the bullet. Danger passes so close by that you can feel the breeze of it passing.
 Making an “impossible” recovery from certain “death” (physical, financial, etc.).
 Resurrection.
Page of Swords
 (Weak Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 A young squire stands on a small mound of “high ground” practicing with his sword on a
 windy day. He looks dead into the wind daring someone—anyone—to attack his
 position. His stance is relaxed and practiced, for he has undergone years of training to
 become proficient with his sword, and now he faces an imaginary foe for his next duel.
 His clothes are light and his hair is pulled back. He has come prepared for this day’s
 activities.
 This card is active and cardinal, but not overly powerful. It is still “in training.”
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Page. Apprentice, assistant, student, youth, messenger
 Suit: Swords. Defensiveness, verbal abuse, bad news
 Direction: West. Debate, opinionated, devil’s advocate. Early evening
 Element: Air. Exchange of ideas, important news, urgent messages
 Traditional meaning:
 As representative of a person, this card indicates a young boy or girl, or a student,
 either of the qualities of the suit of Swords (rash, loud, defensive, angry, potentially
 violent), or of the element of Air (intelligent, studious, [hyper] active, razor wit). If this
card indicates a message, expect the wording to be sharp and pointed, like unpleasant
 news, or something delivered with disdain. When this card indicates a situation or a
 state of being, it reflects the act of taking the moral high ground, vehemently arguing a
 point, speaking from a platform (teaching, lecturing), or preaching. It does not
 indicate a “war of words,” but rather a spirited exchange (unless negatively aspected).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 This implies a self-righteousness, or demeaning manner, poor communications,
 illchosen words leading to arguments, impatience, demotion, evisceration,
 irrationality, brat.
Knight of Swords
 (Ultimate Cardinal Air)
 Description:
 A young man pushes his horse hard across rough terrain. His welltrained horse is
 terrified, and is more concerned about what is on top of him than what lies before him.
 None of this matters to the myopic knight as he sees only his rage and desire for
 vengeance. His red cape of valor and helmet plume of righteous indignation broadcast
 his impatience to see justice (at the edge of a sword) done “now!” Even the sky is angry.
 This may be the angriest card of the Tarot. It is full of youthful impetuousness,
 testosterone, and zeal. It is more cardinal than thou.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Knight. Youthful, warrior, vehemence, daring, rush of testosterone
 Suit: Swords. Aggression, haste, fearlessness, force of will
 Direction: West. Challenge, sense of duty, honor, military code. Sunset
 Element: Air. Strong winds, hurricanes, tornadoes. Birds of prey
 Traditional meaning:
 Unstoppable force. Young alpha male: active, decisive, even overbearing
 sometimes. Fearless. Natural born leader, or one thrust into it by circumstance. Either
 way though, things will happen “his way.” This also shows a man who is quick to act,
and often just as quick to leave, as well. Even so, this person will almost always have a
 certain charisma that draws others to him like flies to honey. As a character or
 personality trait, this card reveals extreme courage in the face of danger, or the act of
 violently forcing others to conform to one’s personal beliefs. This can be either verbal
 or physical. Also: rushing heedlessly into action or rescue from peril.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Negative aspects of the above—bully, abusive, quick to anger, loud, someone with a
 large personal collection of weapons, instigator, loudmouth, impatience, lack of
 foresight, religious fervor, zealot.
Queen of Swords
 (Fixed Air)
 Description:
 The Queen of Swords sits on her carved throne, her sword held aloft in her right hand,
 ready for action, her left hand beckoning to one of her minions to step forward for
 “judgment.” She is not happy today.
 This is a woman who is used to having things brought to her, or to her attention, to be
 dealt with presently. She is resolute, fixed, and immovable once she sets her mind to
 something.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Queen. Mother, judge, teacher, nurse, policewoman, executive, woman
 Suit: Swords. Constriction, imprisonment, dominatrix, ice queen
 Direction: Southeast. Opposition to traditional ruling elite. Female
 politicians. Late night
 Element: Air. Storms, intense mental activity, being devoid of emotional
 clutter
 Traditional meaning:
 This is a decisive woman, one who often gains enemies among others who do not
 understand her or cannot abide her stern ways. She is strong-willed and tends to keep
her reasoning to herself, finding explanations of her behavior a nuisance, or even a
 question of her judgment, rather than a motivating factor in her underlings. She is
 highly intelligent, capable, and not overly swayed by emotional displays or tantrums.
 She represents the concept that real power lies behind the throne, as she is not always
 the one “officially” in charge, as that position comes with too much “shaking hands and
 kissing babies,” and not nearly enough actual hands-on management of affairs.
 Alternatively: If used to indicate “the element of Air,” this card will be either a Gemini,
 Libra, or an Aquarius woman, a doctor, nurse, executive, decision maker, any type of
 female authority figure, a politician, monarch, matriarch, architect, designer, engineer
 (etc.)—none of which are “heartless” or “emotionally distant” by nature. Remember that
 all of the cards in the suit of Swords have to pull “double duty,” alternating between
 elemental interpretations and suit interpretations. Clarifying cards will solve any
 confusion instantly.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Insufferably evil or mean-spirited, selfish woman. Tyrannical boss, corrupt politician,
 or harsh mother figure. Black widow or femme fatale. Heartless, critical, stern, and
 unforgiving. Could indicate the downfall of an otherwise good woman. Open this card
 up if you need additional information before deciding firmly on a set meaning.
King of Swords
 (Fixed Air)
 Description:
 The King of Swords stares right out of the card at us. He is the only one to do so. He is
 challenging us, inspecting us. While other kings focus on what is most important to
 them in their realms, this man stares us down as if we are a part of his realm. His sword
 is held at a relaxed angle slightly off of the vertical, indicating that he is not as uptight as
 his wife. He waits for us to make the next move.
 This energy of this card is fixed, not hesitant in any way, but unlike the Knight, the King
 has the wisdom to observe before taking action.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: King. Boss, overlord, alpha male, doctor, police, judge
 Suit: Swords. Establishment and established authority, “The man”
 Direction: Southeast. Politicians and “public servants.” Late night
 Element: Air. Clear thought, justice, “the letter of the law,” judgment
 Traditional meaning:
 A strong leader or an authority figure, such as a police officer, lawyer, judge,
 businessman, military officer, corporate executive, or perhaps a stern father.
 Alternatively a highly intelligent professional such as a doctor, professor, scientist, or
writer. Personality usually runs on the conservative side: judicious, aggressive,
 ambitious, reserved, distrusting of unproven ideas or people.
 Astrologically: Gemini, Libra, or Aquarius, as these are all Air signs.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 A patient man with a cruel, calculating mind. Criminal mastermind or ringleader.
 Iron-fisted tyrant. Dictator.
A sneak peek at the royal family...
 As a preface to each suit, we will offer tidbits of additional information on the royal
 family of that suit and their place in the Arcana. We will also offer various trivia on life
 in the feudal hierarchy as it clarifies the individual “face cards.” Feel free to use or
 dispose of this information at your leisure. Trust the knowledge you have gained
 through study, but trust your instinct even more. Just don’t start a reading without
 knowing what the cards say to you.
 Fun nobility trivia
 The king is more than “the boss,” although that fact is lost on the world at large today,
 and in many ways that explains the downfall of our greatest societal advancements. Too
 many of today’s leaders (corporate, governmental, even family “leaders”) enjoy the
 sensation of power but dodge the inherent responsibility that follows it like a shadow. In
 times of old (when we actually had ruling kings), the king was one with the land. This
 holds true for elected officials by the way: it is not an argument for the privileges of
 “divine right of birth.” The essence of a true monarch (president or king) is his or her
 (when a queen was sovereign ruler) union with the land and its people. The unity and
 bonding of these two elements are at the center of the alchemical law of “as above, so
 below.” When the king and country are not “one” (the ruler turns a blind eye to the
 needs of the people who are the heart and soul of any country) and he attempts to turn
 his country (or business, family, religious congregation, or any other “organization” he is
 put in custodial charge of) into a massive support mechanism for his ego and his luxury,
 the greatness of that entity starts to wither.
 It is easy to see the opulence and decadence far too many self-proclaimed “emperors”
 narcissistically bathe themselves in at the expense of the very enterprise that supports
 them, and the unwillingness of the abused people to do anything about it. Therefore, the
 term king (or even queen) has acquired an occasionally sour taste when rolling off of the
 tongue. All too rare is the “honorable king” (or queen, as noted above) who realizes that
 his charge is to protect and enhance the land (entity: family, business, congregation,
 etc.) he has been entrusted with. And that is a shame, for as the king goes, so does the
 land (and its people). One good man as king can raise a whole nation of heroes.
 As to our “friend” here... Mr. Smugness, the King of Coins, is an enigma. If we look at
 the fact that he is a representative of the element of Earth, it would seem that he is
 patient, strong, reliable, fertile, and a good manager. But one look at his face examining
 the size of his wealth is enough to make us pause and wonder, “Are you a Good King?...
 or a BAD King?” His strong points are those we just mentioned, or any of the best
qualities of the astrological signs of Earth: decisive, good financial sense, warm, sensual
 (“moderately so”), wise, blah, blah, blah. Reversed, he is a smug, self-righteous,
 domineering, ultra-conservative hypocrite who uses his money to buy elections for the
 express purpose of making him even more money and (“just for fun”) punishing anyone
 who dares defy him. Obviously, when he comes up, it is important to ascertain exactly
 which side of the tree he fell out of, quickly.
 As to the ages of the court cards, don’t get locked into this; but as an example, you may
 choose to see the various “face cards” represent people of these general age groups
 below. Remember that aspecting and clarifying cards will help identify these people
 much more than guesswork.
 King: Adult male (or authority figure) generally over 30
 Queen: Adult female (or authority figure) generally over 30
 Knight: Late teen to early adulthood, to age 30-ish (depending on maturity)
 Page: Child, pre-teen, tween, early teen (to age 13–15 at most usually)
The House of Coins
Ace of Coins
 (Cardinal Earth)
 Description:
 The “hand of God” appears from a small cloud, holding a large gold coin this time.
 Ignore the pentagram inscribed in it for the moment. The gold and the coin part are the
 primary Tarot symbolism. The addition of a pentagram to the coin in this image does
 not change the Tarot symbolism, nor does it imply that a Christian “God” is a heathen
 (pagan). The grounds below are lush and luxurious in contrast to other Aces, reinforcing
 the fertility of the earth and the raw power of Nature.
 The energy of this card is cardinal, as are all of the other Aces. It shows us the
 foundation of all wealth and worldly power.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ace (or One). Source, foundation, prime fertility. Odd
 Suit: Coins. Wealth, abundance, growth, raw materials
 Direction: South. Leadership, regimen, acquisition, Kronos. Midnight
 Element: Earth. Stability, strength, reliability, responsibility, nutrients
 Traditional meaning:
 This card signifies the beginning of any fortunate enterprise or undertaking. “If you do
 this ‘thing,’ you will get money.” This could mean buying a lottery ticket, marrying a
wealthy spouse, earning a university degree, starting a new business, or taking a
 certain job. This card betokens new money, but to determine exactly where and how
 that money will appear, it helps to know the question asked, or have aspecting cards
 reveal to you their connection with this card. The timing on Aces is usually “imminent,”
 with occasional exception that will be obvious in your readings; but aspecting cards
 can and will narrow down the time frame in exact proportion to your familiarity with
 your cards and the exact specifics of the question asked.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Delays in getting paid, missed opportunities, not getting the “big raise,” being written
 out of the inheritance, warning not to speculate or gamble, time to conserve your
 money.
Two of Coins
 (Mutable Earth)
 Description:
 A man juggles his coins as a ship in the background is tossed about carelessly by the
 ever-changing sea. By the man’s garb and spritely dance, we can see that he is a
 professional; and he is not overly concerned, yet pensive, as if trying to find the perfect
 balance. The ribbon that surrounds his coins is reminiscent of the infinity symbol,
 suggesting that his is an ongoing struggle for balance through constant adjustment and
 analysis.
 The symbolism of this card strongly suggests ongoing emotional and physical
 imbalance, and is of a mutable nature.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Two. Options, possibilities, differing needs and desires. Even
 Suit: Coins. Budgets, financial responsibilities, risks and gambling
 Direction: West-Northwest. Flexibility, adaptation, accounting. Early
 afternoon
 Element: Earth. Tremors, quicksand, mud, muck, murk, swamps, scandal
 Traditional meaning:
 To truly get this card, simply angle it slightly to the right (clockwise) so that the boat is
“level.” Now imagine that the boat is “steady,” and that it is the entire earth that is
 rolling around under this man’s feet as he tries to juggle, and dance, and keep his
 balance without dropping either of his coins or his ribbon. This card has one central
 meaning that can manifest in several different ways: At best it reveals clever
 accounting and tricky cash flow to keep everything afloat, even against the stormy
 seas of volatile economic times. On a slightly less happy note, it more often reveals a
 financial struggle, literally the “juggling of one’s finances” by borrowing money from
 this area of the budget to pay for that, and scrambling to make ends meet. In a worst
 case scenario, it is a dire warning that one’s current money management style is about
 to explode in their face. Could indicate financial insolvency, gambling, even scams.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Finances in complete disarray, overspending, disorganization leads to chaos,
 instability, nervous breakdown, hypochondria, trying to fulfill too many obligations,
 physical accidents.
Three of Coins
 (Cardinal Earth)
 Description:
 A master stonemason is doing some finishing work on an intricate arch he has been
 commissioned to create for a local monastery. He is interrupted by a friar and a
 bureaucrat who happen to have an artistic rendition of what the arch “should” look like.
 They simply have some questions or concerns about the project. This can be seen as
 forcing him to stop work to answer some questions that could easily be addressed after
 the daylight hours have passed, since he can’t do this at night, or it may be taken as a
 commendation of his skills.
 Whether this represents the master or the critic, it is cardinal in energy.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Three. Additional input, “three’s a crowd,” structural analysis. Odd
 Suit: Coins. Work stoppage, quality control, commendations, clients, referrals
 Direction: South. Corporate executives, management, structure, detail.
 Midnight
 Element: Earth. Mastery of skill, contracts and “contracts awarded,” self
reliance
 Traditional meaning:
This is the card of the master; whether that is a master artist, swordsman, magus,
 stonecutter, or any other occupation, this card shows great skill and achievement.
 Compare this to the 8 of Coins, which shows us the apprentice. This may indicate the
 master himself, his masterpiece work, his studio, or even a visit from clients. Similarly
 it can represent artistic criticism, or a critique of one’s work, an employee evaluation,
 quality assessment, even a promotion or a raise. All of these possibilities are positive in
 nature. Look to the surrounding cards and the nature of the question to determine
 exactly what is at play here. This card can occasionally indicate unexpected assistance
 once you have earned your “sweat equity” (you have made your bandwagon and
 people want to jump on it, which is not necessarily a bad thing at all).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 The same basic principles for this card apply in reverse, except that they are far more
 negative. Now we see complaints about your work: unhappy bosses or clients,
 meddling in your affairs, or nagging and micro-managing to great detriment, even
 lack of recognition for your efforts. Conversely: shoddy workmanship.
Four of Coins
 (Fixed Earth)
 Description:
 A merchant lord sits on a simple stone block throne in the middle of a thriving
 metropolis. This man is so cheap he doesn’t even have his throne embellished beyond
 the most basic indications that it is a platform. He tightly grips a coin in an “infinite
 loop,” and prevents two from escaping while boastfully proclaiming his sovereignty of
 wealth by wearing yet another coin on top of his self-stylized crown. This man needs to
 display his smallness as much as he needs to display his wealth and “power.” He is as
 fixed as his pose. Please do note that this is the only metropolis setting in the entire
 Tarot.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Four. Walls, glass ceiling, restriction, stability, possessiveness. Even
 Suit: Coins. Budget cuts, savings, bank vaults, loan officers, businessman,
 greed
 Direction: Northeast. Heartless boss, tyrant, landlord, white-collar thief.
 Morning
 Element: Earth. Embezzlement, hoard and one who hoards, “conservative”
 Traditional reversed meaning:
Money works best when it flows. The idea of great wealth is not to stop the flow at all.
 It is the process of diverting some of the vast flow of golden coins to jingle your way as
 you create a small pool for them to circulate in before they flow out to parts unknown,
 preferably at a much slower rate than they come in. Having large amounts of
 money and not being able to spend it (on food, clothing, luxuries, or necessities) is not
 wealth. It is hell. This card presents us with the complete stoppage of the flow of
 money. This man hoards what little he has, and so he gets no more. This card
 indicates being too controlling with any resources, to the point of being locked in a box.
 This card says, “There is no money available. Period.” End of story.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Tight-fisted boss or landlord, or someone who publicly wears excessive amounts of
 gold or other status and wealth indicators to intimidate and impress others.
 Obsessively greedy people, corporate feudal lords and their political cronies. Dictators.
Five of Coins
 (Mutable Earth)
 Description:
 A destitute woman and a leper (notice the bell around his neck) struggle through a
 snowstorm at night just outside the foot-thick towering stone walls of a fortress-like
 church, whose magnificent buttressed stained-glass window radiates brightly with the
 proclamation that all is well in the “house of God.” No one comes out to greet them, no
 door stands open to welcome them in to the warmth and “compassion” of religion. This
 is the institution of religion failing, as it caters to its own wealth at the expense of the
 downtrodden it claims to serve. This is the destruction of the bonds of society.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Five. Duality of essence; chaos and structure, lies and
 machinations. Odd
 Suit: Coins. Corporate spirituality, religion for sale, devastation, false gods
 Direction: West-Northwest. Illness, financial insolvency, despair. Early
 afternoon
 Element: Earth. Health issues, homelessness, eviction, lack of opportunity or
 ability
 Traditional meaning:
 This is a very unpleasant side of any society. This card addresses poverty,
homelessness, lack of health and health insurance. This card signifies a lack of ability
 to pay one’s way in life after a tragedy. It shows the physical and emotional despair of
 ruin and the view of much of society that the poor are merely indolent, lazy, and
 deserve their fate. This card reflects more than a simple lack of funds. It reveals a lack
 of compassion, and a refusal to assist those in need, whether they brought their
 afflictions upon themselves, or they are victims of the abuse of others. All in all, this
 card is one of loss and despair. If this card comes up in a reading, look to aspecting
 cards to determine causes and solutions, or preventions.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Materialism to the point of spiritual starvation and disconnect. Wealth at the cost of
 lasting happiness and any of the virtues. False gods or spiritual leaders, cults.
Six of Coins
 (Cardinal Earth)
 Description:
 A man holds a scale in his left, or sinister, hand while dispensing alms to a pair of men
 unable to earn their way through life at this time. He is bathed in red: his hat of decisive
 action, his robe of purpose, his collar of vociferous piety, his leggings of applied effort,
 and his belt of self-discipline. His own robe is threadbare and fraying from much use,
 and his tunic is as white and pure as his motives. He acts independently, without the
 need of praise, sanction, nor accolades of any temple or government.
 He is his own authority, which lends him the autonomy of being cardinal.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Six. Sharing, balance, give and take, equilibrium, social
 responsibility. Even
 Suit: Coins. Charity, community investment, public policy, welfare, loans
 Direction: South. Decision-making ability, scholarships and grants, lottery.
 Midnight
 Element: Earth. Second chances, balanced thought, karma, careful decisions
 Traditional meaning:
 This card illustrates a good person and a solid citizen. This person contributes more to
society than their labors, or their DNA (offspring), and the taxes they pay for the
 public good. They take action on their own initiative to help those in need, create art
 and gardens for the public, clean up their neighborhoods, and in other ways make
 their area more livable. This card also refers to the act of charity, or selfless giving,
 stopping to help someone, or the giving and receiving of presents.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Individual selfishness and narcissism. The person or action indicated are so concerned
 with their own well-being that they refuse to look out for the needs of others unless it
 benefits them directly somehow, usually insisting on payment before any services are
 rendered. That makes this the card of the scam; also blackmail, or extortion. If this
 card comes up reversed, look at aspecting cards to see if your client is being pressured
 or deceived.
Seven of Coins
 (Mutable Earth)
 Description:
 A young man rests on his hoe, staring down despondently at the crop he has grown from
 seed. The harvest this year is beyond excellent. Large, full, rich leaves reveal the health
 of the stalk beneath, and bright golden disks grow in tight clusters, but for all of that the
 results seem disappointing to him, as if he dreams of life as an acrobat rather than a
 farmer, even a farmer of gold coins. This card is proof that if money really did grow on
 trees, someone would still wish they were strawberries.
 This card is the result, or yield of previous actions, therefore, it is mutable.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Seven. Realization, rest, overview, rewards and results. Odd
 Suit: Coins. Successful harvest, questionable results, high expectations
 Direction: West-Northwest. Disappointment, analysis, servile labor. Early
 afternoon
 Element: Earth. Fertility, unexpected pregnancy, indecision, slow or steady
 growth
 Traditional meaning:
 No matter how good your situation may look to others, or even how comfortable and
entertaining it may actually be, it is simply not for you. Your heart is not in your work.
 This card shows a boring job, or one that has become boring, if it ever had any gleam
 and luster to begin with. Daydreaming of distant places and adventures to be found
 there comes easily now, often to the cost of the quality of work you do right now. It’s
 time for a change. Time to leave the nest and take risks, see the world and sample its
 varied pleasures. This place has nothing left for you.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Reversed, this card indicates that you are missing the point—you have something
 worthwhile, something you will miss dearly if you let it die off, or walk away from.
 Before you neglect what you have into obscurity, you should take some time and think
 very seriously and carefully about your next move.
Eight of Coins
 (Fixed Earth)
 Description:
 A young man carefully taps a large pentagram into a gold coin. He seems to enjoy his
 job, but his focus is on his precision, on the task at hand. Mounted on the wall next to
 him are several finished coins, and others rest on the ground next to him. He wears the
 apron of a trained apprentice, revealing his basic skill in workmanship. His workspace is
 free of clutter, reducing any distractions from his work.
 His labors are regular and repetitive, making this a fixed card.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Eight. Routine, endless repetition, penance, practice, training. Even
 Suit: Coins. Basic employment, apprenticeship, artisans, construction. A Mint
 Direction: Northeast. Job security, financial sector work, factory. Mid
morning
 Element: Earth. Economic growth (public), arts and crafts, small business
 Traditional meaning:
 “Work, work, work.” This card can mean many things. At first blush, it reveals an
 apprentice, or one whose level of skill is worthy of employment, but not such that they
 are an artiste, or a master, capable of opening up their own shop. That leads this card
to be an indicator of a job, or simple gainful employment, even if that job lasts twenty
 years. The card also indicates an artisan, or craftsman who specializes in a certain
 area of service or manufacture. In this case, the card shows us a physical artist, a true
 artisan, or a skilled specialist in physical matters (e.g., construction, auto mechanic,
 engineer, etc.). Finally, the alternate aspect of the apprentice is one who studies,
 meaning a student of a vocational school, or the act of attending “adult education” to
 better oneself. Look to aspecting cards first.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Sloth, laziness, inattentiveness at school, not applying oneself, being late for work,
 unreliable, unemployment.
Nine of Coins
 (Fixed Earth)
 Description:
 A finely dressed woman lounges in the vineyard of her estate, surrounded by ripe,
 succulent fruits, more wealth than she can even care about, and her pet falcon. She
 wants for nothing. Wealth to her is nothing more than an assumed way of life. There is
 no other existence she can imagine, so she doesn’t waste her valuable time dreaming up
 the impossible, or the nonsensical. She has her passions (falconing) and her bountiful
 garden of grapes that is the envy of everyone she knows. What else could anyone ever
 ask for, or need from life?
 Her decadence is unquestionable, and her lifestyle is fixed.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Nine. Fruition of goals, retirement, “end of the rainbow.” Odd
 Suit: Coins. Financial independence, “kept (man or) woman,” farm or vineyard
 Direction: Northeast. Luxury, sensualism, nature, passions, beauty. Mid
morning
 Element: Earth. Self-made people, druids, estate lands, easy life, hedonism
 Traditional meaning:
 This is a kept woman. Of course, this card is applicable to either gender, and people of
any age, as long as they are among the idle rich, or merely serenely content with the
 wealth they do possess, their passions, and their ease of life. This extremely fortunate
 card betokens material success to the point of leisurely inactivity. But this is more than
 simply having money. This card is about enjoying your passions in life, and
 having an ease of existence so that you can chase your dreams, and not have to put up
 with the drudgery of everyday life that the rest of the population of Earth has to
 contend with, no matter how wealthy they are. This is life as a permanent vacation, no
 matter what your status otherwise.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 When this card is reversed, it shows what we are missing out on. “All work and no
 play...” leads to a life of work, and possibly wealth and power, but to what end?
Ten of Coins
 (Cardinal Earth)
 Description:
 An old man lounges in the garden of his estate in a large village. His greyhounds attend
 him, even as a playful young girl grabs at one’s tail. Her mother chats happily with a
 young man armed with a spear in a wide stone arch which is, in turn, decorated with
 shields emblazoned with the Coats of Arms of powerful families, and a massive tapestry
 illustrated with a skillfully woven scene of a mountainous fortress. Life is easy, gay, and
 relaxed here.
 This is the card of generations of wealth compiled, and power consolidated into one
 strong, large family of absolute luxury. And it is a cardinal family.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Number: Ten. End results, system reset, sum total. Total market dominance.
 Even
 Suit: Coins. Generational wealth, powerful families, empire(s), Camelot
 Direction: South. Authority, autonomy, influence, ruling class, executives.
 Midnight
 Element: Earth. Opulence, born into wealth, retirement, inheritance,
 corporations
Traditional meaning:
 Old money. This is the estate card. This is not indicative of winning the lottery, or
 doing well at your job. This card means wealth and power that most people never visit,
 much less possess. The ease and comfort with wealth and power shown in this card
 come only from being raised in wealth, or adapting to it so completely that it becomes
 like a second skin. Thus, this card best reflects a very healthy pension or a retirement
 in style (and then some) after a lifetime of investing one’s time and energy toward this
 end goal. As a location, or an entity, this can indicate any powerful family (industrial,
 political, or royalty), a museum, a wealthy investor for your project, or a large and
 luxurious house. As a result, it can be a bank loan or other big-project financial action.
 If you wanted to play this card loose and fast, it could conceivably indicate “moving
 back in with mom and dad” if this interpretation was supported by aspecting cards.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Loss of economic stability, the fall of a great house of power, infighting among insiders
 (in a family or business) that threatens to tear an empire apart. Living so far beyond
 one’s means to keep up appearances that one’s foundation is shaky.
Page of Coins
 (Weak Cardinal Earth)
 Description:
 A young squire stands in a lush, green meadow overlooking carefully worked farm lands.
 The fertile soil is rich, moist, and capable of providing generations of various crops if
 tended with care. From all accounts, that is the course of action. The squire here
 represents the newest generation of estate lords who are custodians of this area, and his
 poetic stance and worshipful gaze at the coin he holds with absolute reverence indicate
 his fascination with his lot in life. His reverence for his trade creates a spiritual
 resonance in him that will one day translate into the work he applies to these lands.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Page. Apprentice, assistant, student, youth, messenger
 Suit: Coins. Contract, promotion, raise, new job, financial plan
 Direction: South. School tuition, loans, grants (etc.), thrift, ability to budget.
 Midnight
 Element: Earth. Good news financially, small budgets or profits, “nest egg”
 Traditional meaning:
 Pages are meant to illustrate many things. As a person, it can show a young boy or
 girl of the Earth signs (Taurus, Virgo, or Capricorn). It can also show someone one
who is deeply in love with money and luxuries. As a message, it bears small tidings of
 money, usually news of a raise, a bonus, a gift, or a refund. But it can also indicate the
 act of study (or economics, accounting, banking, or any of the financial sciences), or
 even tuition money for school, as Pages can represent students learning their trade.
 Compare this card directly to the question at hand, and look for aspecting cards to
 indicate exactly what the message is here, as all of the Page cards are highly dependent
 on other cards to give them clarity of meaning.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 (Minor) bad news financially or small loss of income or savings. One who spends far
 too easily with no appreciation for the efforts required to earn money. Not getting
 paid.
Knight of Coins
 (Intense Fixed Earth)
 Description:
 A young knight sits comfortably on his steed, scowling at something off in the distance.
 His mount’s reins are pulled tightly, holding his horse in place with his left hand. His
 right holds up a coin, as if to show his possession of it to whomever or whatever he is
 glaring at disdainfully. He is sending a strong message. He is prepared to ride long
 distances and fight toe-to-toe for his cause, but by reining his horse in, refusing to
 advance a step, he is demanding his audience to approach him on his terms. This stoic
 “take it or leave it” attitude is fortified by his possession of the coin (“He who has the
 gold makes the rules”).
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Knight. Youthful, warrior, bravado, manager, protector, commander
 Suit: Coins. Financial offer or assistance, business travel, loan officer
 Direction: Northeast. Reliability, practicality, sensuality, common sense. Mid
morning
 Element: Earth. Persistence, patience, waiting, ambition, duty, honor,
 resilience
 Traditional meaning:
Unlike other Knights whose testosterone levels force them to initiate action, this man’s
 same biochemicals create a smugness and bravado that challenges others to bend to
 his will by taking action that he finds amusing, or acceptable. His confidence is rooted
 in his possessions, his inherent obstinance, and his readiness to wait out any situation
 until he finds circumstances to his liking. This card shows a stubbornness in people, or
 refusal to budge, or compromise that is both the hallmark of great leadership and the
 cause of many of society’s ills. This card allows no compromise. When you see this
 card, the person it represents is saying, “Come and get it. I dare you.” But the subtle
 inflection underneath is that things will progress at their comfort level, and only in the
 manner they desire.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Complete lack of self-control. Weakness. Inability to stand up for oneself. Foolishness
 with money and resources.
Queen of Coins
 (Fixed Earth)
 Description:
 Our Queen sits comfortably on her elaborately carved throne, gazing down at her
 exceptionally large gold coin, enjoying the weight and feel of it. She is surrounded on all
 sides by lush flowers and vines; life explodes around her in full bloom, and even a rabbit
 (symbol of fertility of womb and her land) scampers by happily. For all of this, however,
 her communion with her coin is so powerfully hypnotic that she is lost to the rest of the
 world. Her entire essence is drinking in its virtues through all of her highly acute senses.
 She is at peace, and the world around her is at peace through that.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: Queen. Mother, boss, nurturer, business woman, public figure, woman
 Suit: Coins. Wealthy woman, manager, financier, matron, materialism
 Direction: Northeast. Emotional stability, kindness, possessiveness. Morning
 Element: Earth. Beltane, fertility, nursery (plants), nursery (children), maid
 Traditional meaning:
 Folklore tells us that the king and the land are one. This is no less true of the ruling
 queen. The woman in this card is no dainty waif who happened upon a wealthy prince.
 She is the embodiment of the earth and the essence of fertility. This card can be used
astrologically (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), or it can represent a woman of patience and
 common sense, one who is attuned with nature, a florist or farmer, animal-rights
 activist, a warm, caring, maternal, authority figure, nurse, doctor, teacher, or any
 wealthy woman over 30.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 As character traits—Selfish woman, impatient and demanding, elitist; scornful of
 others, especially those she considers inferiors. Shamelessly materialistic. Evil boss.
 Gold digger. Alternately, as an effect or event: a loss of social or financial status,
 “falling from grace,” feminine health issues (see a doctor now), abandonment by
 husband, loss of stability, “having your world turned upside down.”
King of Coins
 (Intense Cardinal Earth)
 Description:
 “It’s good to be the king!” The smugness of the Knight of Coins is only outclassed by the
 man who invented smugness. Truly, the only thing better than being young, handsome,
 and wealthy (for a man) is to be young, handsome, wealthy, and in charge. The man
 before you has no problems with his wealth; no problems with how he got his money,
 and no problems with how he uses it to get what he wants. This card shows us that
 wealth and power may not be everything in life, but that they sure go a long way in the
 eyes of one who knows how to enjoy, and enforce his will through, them.
 Prime elements at work in this card
 Status: King. Boss, overlord, alpha male, landlord, tycoon, industrialist
 Suit: Coins. King-maker, investor, corporate officer, banker, consultant
 Direction: South. Yule, Oak king. Conservative, tradition. Midnight
 Element: Earth. Prudence, predictability, patience, stability, fiscal
 responsibility
 Traditional meaning:
 Any wealthy man. Also: Men of power, prestige, authority, confident, or stubborn,
 especially men associated with land and real estate. Astrologically: Taurus, Virgo,
 Capricorn. This card most often indicates corporate executives, businessmen,
investors, kings, and men directly involved with finance and the details of funding
 projects. As an effect or a result: more than simple success in business, absolute
 dominance of your niche market. Wise counsel from experienced men who want to see
 you succeed. Patience is needed in matters of finance at this time. This also indicates
 the wheels of industry moving, but the wheels are large and elephantine, moving
 slowly due to the massive amount of resources and human factors that need to be
 brought in line.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 A wasteful, small-minded, arrogant man. “Small” man’s syndrome. Petulance.
 Stubborn, rude, elitist, tyrannical, or bullying cretin. Alternately: loss of power, status,
 money, health.
Section Five
 THE “MAJOR” ARCANA
Introduction to the “minor” Arcana
 Here at last we examine the famed “major” Arcana, being the 22 cards that deal with
 some of the aspects of daily life that seem beyond “mortal control.” We have saved the
 “major” Arcana for last, as the images are stagnant and “posed.” There is less action and
 more impression of concepts at work here. These cards have always been designed to be
 intimidating, as they represent concepts that have vexed mastery by the masses over the
 centuries. Here is an easy way to avoid that trap: Simply remember that all “major”
 Arcana cards are highly dependent on “minor” Arcana cards to define, shape, and
 clarify them.
 The “major” Arcana cards will show you overall concepts, large forces, institutions (e.g.,
 hospitals, government agencies), “major” events (being ones that deeply impact your
 clients), priorities, and karmic paths; but they will not usually show the means or the
 details. This is why the two Arcana work seamlessly together, and why we wanted you to
 become comfortable and familiar with the “minor” Arcana first. Consider the “major”
 Arcana simply an extension of the “minor” Arcana for the purposes of reading for your
 clients.
If you decide someday to enroll in any mystery school, you will learn all sorts of
 interesting tidbits of esoteric wisdom; but for right now you need to know that you are
 not missing out on anything by reading the cards “as you see them.” Have fun with your
 deck and develop your bond with them to make yourself an extremely talented
 prognosticator. Then worry about “additional information” as you like.
The Fool
 Description:
 A gaily dressed young man traverses the heights of his world. His burden is light, the
 Sun is shining, and the rose in his hand still holds its scent. He literally is “on top of the
 world,” lost in his own joyous meditations. His next step may be his last, or perhaps he
 may have mastered the ability to walk on air. Either way, he is simply too in love with
 whatever occupies his mind to pay attention to such trivialities. He has found optimal
 bliss. Even his fluffy white dog’s happy barks do not call his attention away from his
 serenity.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 The Fool sits outside of the fixed “reality box” of the numerical concepts of positive and
 negative numbers. The Tarot limits existential understanding to 21 hard-coded stages.
 The Fool laughs gleefully at them all. The essence of this card is the essence of
 “humanity.” This card emphasizes the Buddha seed in all of us, the spark of creativity,
 the joy of unbridled freedom as we escape from the limitations of the “minor” Arcana
 (food, sleep, money, sex, love, etc.). We are free of these addictions in this card because
 this card represents that part in all of us where these needs are satiated or no longer a
 concern. This is the absolute freedom of choice, and it is that choice being acted upon
 “right now.”
 Traditional meaning:
It is an interesting point that at the moment of chaos you are most truly free. It may
 not feel that way at the time, but once you lose everything, you gain even more.
 Without the burdens of luxuries or (self-imposed) responsibilities to tie you down, you
 can go anywhere you desire. Think on this for a moment. This is why the “chaos star”
 has eight arrows. This card represents that freedom. You do not have to “lose
 everything” to find this freedom in yourself. You simply need to click your heels
 together three... er, take a deep breath and just say “ it!” (use your favorite term). You
 find joy in life by pursuing what is important to you, not your boss, or what your
 parents want you to do, or how your friends “think you should behave.” Note how he is
 completely at peace with whatever befalls his next step. That is you when you stop
 caring what other people want you to do (so they can be happy).
 This card can represent you enjoying any new beginnings, whether they are new
 ventures, freedom from restriction, new directions in life. This is your personal “get out
 of jail free card.” When you see this card, see the opportunities ahead of you and the
 courage that comes naturally with pursuing what is most important to you. Whatever
 happens next is not as important as what you want it to be. One of the metaphysical
 secrets of this card is that it is a wish card. The future is not set (he has not stepped off
 of the cliff yet). Circumstances are always a result of people deciding how reality should
 be and making it so. The fact that everyone else simply shrugs and goes along with their
 vision is simply a matter of history. When this card shows up, it is time to take that leap
 of faith and spread your wings (and flap like crazy!). Take this card and put it anywhere
 in the deck—and that is where you will be. That is the real power of this card.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Missteps and fear brought about by overanalysis. Fear of the unknown. Selflimitation
 forces one to remain in whatever prison they have created for themselves. Inability to
 act decisively. Check aspecting cards to see who and what is helping create (or enforce)
 this limitation. Open it up to reveal how this can be overcome. Hesitance almost
 always means opportunities missed. Also: If The Fool steps halfway, trying to be both
 on the cliff and off, he will almost certainly fall. Don’t do that.
The Magician
 Description:
 A master practitioner holds his double-ended candle high and simultaneously points to
 the earth below him (multiple meanings, but the most obvious in Tarot teaching texts is
 “as above, so below” indicating the power of this man and the usage of this card; for
 more information ask your teacher or enroll in a mystery school). His tools lay before
 him on his worktable, being the sum of all worldly endeavors, and flowered vines and
 plants of all sorts surround him, reminding us that he is one with Nature. His belt is the
 encircling snake of “self-containment” and eternal regeneration, his halo of infinity,
 white robes of purity of intent, white headband of purity of thought, red overcloak of
 action and purpose incarnate.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 Our friend The Magician is primarily representative of the jewel of the achievement of
 humanity: the force of the human will. “I AM!” A statement so simple yet profound
 simply by the speaker’s ability to make it. As the (alleged) “dominant” life form, we
 enjoy the ability to shape and control our planet and everything contained on it with
 ever more daring and skill. This is a skill reserved to homo sapiens among known
 primates, and it is the power over all of “existence” (as existence is merely a concept of
 awareness). The amount of layers and symbolism one can draw from all of this has
 been catalogued by various books and secret texts, and we will not go into all of that
 here. For your current use, know that this is not a force to be played with like a toy.
This is the root base of the Laws of Attraction and Repulsion, and it is a tool capable of
 harnessing the full power of the Mystic and Complete Law of Cause and Effect. This is
 inside you even now. Advanced training can help you draw it out more clearly, but
 this natural part of you is why you exist and how you get what you want (and need:
 hint) from life. Meditate on this for further clarity.
 Traditional meaning:
 This card has a lot in common with the Ace of Wands. It is the act of, and power to,
 manifest “something from nothing” (which is an esoteric misnomer we use only for the
 sake of convenience in teaching). This is the card of purposeful creation and
 destruction, not some random act of the gods or circumstance. This card represents the
 act of commitment. Pair this up with a “minor” Arcana card to see what is being
 “decided and acted upon.” This card also shows the autonomy of self-governance and
 the reliability of assumed responsibility. There is no hesitation in this card. It is not a
 card of action per se, but the force behind action or the command presence to instill
 action to follow along a prescribed path. When you see this card, see decisions,
 initiations (the commencement of activities), a revelation of the power of whatever this
 card points at, the will and the confidence to act decisively, and the ability to utilize
 resources at hand. This is a supreme Alpha card. It represents initiative combined with
 action, and is not for the timid or the weak. As a person: these are the qualities of this
 person (male or female). This card is genderless. As advice: do these things. Take
 action, make decisions, be confident, use what you have now, and stop whining or
 procrastinating. This card offers no excuses and allows for none in turn. This is not the
 outward authority of status or position (Emperor, Hierophant...). This is inherent in
 everyone and must be tapped into to actuate. This is the channeling of the energies
 accessible to anyone towards a set goal or problem.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Unskilled labor. Indecisive person or action. Weak will. Sacrifice without reward.
 Cowardly behavior. When reversed this card indicates an untrained, or incompletely
 trained “expert,” a “falseprophet” if you will. Bad advice from a fool (not “The Fool”). It
 is sacrilege and anathema to the wisdom and knowledge that come from careful and
 patient study and practice. It unearths shoddy workmanship and even scandal
 brought about by laziness pressed into authority. This is a very disturbing card
 reversed as it shows not just merely a lack of potential or of effort, it denotes a willful
 disregard for the values of patient and persistent training of a needed skill.
The High Priestess
 Description:
 Pomegranates. Our lady of mystery sits on a simple throne which is little more than a
 block, with pillars left and right supporting the weave of pomegranates behind her,
 masking off the evening sea of her domain. Some argue the crown she wears is that of
 the triple goddess. It is, in fact, a pearl (see below), as the moon is already indicated at
 her feet, aswim in her flowing tresses of watery imagination. The equilateral cross (or its
 later Christian adaptation) marks her purity as certainly as her white tunic/robe. The
 Torah in her lap shows her to be a student of mysteries and spirituality, rather than a
 “woman of the world,” further indicating her great storehouse of knowledge.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 First the pomegranates. Pomegranates are so woven into mythos by so many ancient
 cultures, with so many variations that you can simply pick which interpretation you
 want to personally believe. That being said, the most appropriate one for the Tarot
 Priestess in use is that of Persephone [Persef-uh-nee], daughter of Demeter and Zeus,
 sometimes wife of Hades, and always “Queen of the Dead.” This reinforces the notion
 that The High Priestess card is power beyond the subconscious, along with the sea
 behind her, the crescent moon of intuitive insight is at her feet, and the twin pillars of
 light and dark. Her crown can be interpreted as you like, but consider the pearl is the
 sea’s most precious and rare jewel. It has always been found only rarely in oysters that
 “swallowed” a grain of sand and built the pearl as a response (this ignores modern
artificial culturing). Pearls are another statement of insight and purity, as well as
 representations of the moon. All miscellaneous aspects aside, the importance of The
 High Priestess is her representation of duality.
 A sine wave arches “positive” and then “negative” as stimulus is offered and withdrawn.
 We see this as a polarity, most often in terms of male/female, day/night, “good/bad,”
 up/down, “heaven/hell,” right/left, “God/devil,” and so on, ad infinitum. She represents
 psychological dualism (the “this or that” paradigm that is all too common in bilaterally
 symmetrical life-forms). As The Magician is the act of will pressed outward upon the
 world (phallus), she is the receptive organ of creation (you can guess where this is
 going). She is “imagination,” which is not to be underestimated simply because the act of
 will is so obvious. The High Priestess is a full half of the creation process, as she is the
 gateway to the ether. Neither she nor The Magician is more important nor more
 powerful than its counterpart. They are a team on a Tantric level of awareness few
 magical practitioners can even grasp, much less actually aspire to achieving.
 Traditional meaning:
 Intuition, imagination, dreams, creative spark or inspiration. She brings new
 understandings of situations through listening, not acting. She is communion, prayer,
 knowing when to seek guidance and doing so. As The Magician is active psychic
 power channeled outward, she is receptive information gained, as well as active
 psychic power of calling in assistance. As forceful and direct as The Magician is, his
 partner is just as oblique. She “uncovers, or reveals” where he “takes action.” Her
 abilities lie in everyone. They exist at all times in our subconscious minds and are our
 direct connection to whatever we individually call “God.” This card shows or advises
 reflection, quiet listening, intuitive work, seeking out expert knowledge and assistance
 (both on a “higher plane’”and physically). Pair this up with a “minor” Arcana card to
 see what she is alluding to.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 As a mental state or physical condition—confusion, alcoholism and drug
 abuse/overdose, paranoia and superstition. Disillusion (especially with 6 of Swords, 7
 of Coins, etc.) spiritual weakness, clouded judgment, false spirituality (look at
 aspecting cards), psychosis, fanaticism and extremism, not doing one’s research or
 homework, abduction, buried treasures, and bad pomegranates.
The Empress
 Description:
 Our celestial lady sits comfortably on a cushioned throne. In case you were wondering,
 this is what “Mother Nature” looks like (at least according to one P.C. Smith). The
 goddess symbolism of this card is unmistakable, from her Venusian throne (with extra
cushy pillows!) to the wheat (sacred to Demeter, mother of Persephone; see The High
 Priestess), the crown of stars, more pomegranates... Her presence brings life to all.
 Trees are alive with leaves and fruits, water flows freely, and the sun shines brightly. We
 will politely ignore the inconsistency of separating her feet from the earth by setting her
 “throne” on a stone pillar and we ask that you do as well. Not all Tarot art is symbolically
 correct.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 Mom. (aka mommy, mother, “maaaa!”, one who rears and occasionally scolds us,
 giver of life, and “she who loves you more than anyone—no matter what”). Yeah, her.
 This card is everyone’s mom, in a celestial kind of way, and every mom has a bit of this
 card in her. This is more than simple empress (power), or queen (status). This is that
 squishy kind of unconditional love that nurtures the soul, warms up the coldest nights,
 and makes the worst times bearable. This card is the glue of the Tarot. As such, it is
 also its emotional backbone and support system. She is both womb and caregiver
 “after” birth is a distant memory (to all but her). Do not make this woman angry.
Traditional meaning:
 Pregnancy. “Congratulations!” Also indicative of mothers if associated with
 supporting “minor” Arcana cards. See this as the concept of, the energy and actuality
 of motherhood, rather than any one person in all but rare cases. Identify the person by
 finding aspecting cards or by opening this card up. As a verb, this card indicates
 applied compassion, caring, the act of nurturing, and caretaking. This could just as
 easily be nursing along a new business venture with great care and love as it could be
 the act of “taking in a stray.” The emphasis here is the sincere care and attention given
 by the person behind these kind acts. As a quality in a person, it speaks most highly:
 that rare quality of genuine compassion, consideration, grace, beauty (inner and most
 likely outer, to some extent, as well). As a situation, it indicates a happy home life, a
 time of more than peace. Think more renaissance, where arts and luxuries abound as
 repression ends. Creativity, free thought, and the free expression of that thought are
 allowed to blossom. In every way this is truly a happy card. It is not a beginning
 (except in the case of a pregnancy), nor an ending. It is a state of being, or a state of
 affairs for a time, and those times are ripe with food, friends, emotional and physical
 security.
 Addendum: Some (alleged) “experts” fear discussing matters such as birth
 (pregnancy) or death, as if by avoiding discussing these fundamental parts of life, they
 can somehow avoid them perpetually. We have a more pragmatic point of view: Your
 clients come to you for advice. If you fail them, you risk your credibility and you may
 actually injure them. If you see something, say it as politely as you feel you must.
 Sidestep and meander conversationally all you like, and even couch what you say in
 terms of “possibilities” or phraseology such as “perhaps it would be better if you
 considered this instead” if you feel the need. But do not ever believe that you can attain
 immortality simply by refusing to see reality exactly as it is. The Tarot is not “politically
 correct.” Death (card “13”) and Birth (indicated in several cards) are two of the three
 “guarantees in life.” If you suspect something “dire,” always verify what you think you
 see before saying too much; but trouble known is trouble avoided. The Tarot shows
 possibilities, and sometimes that means it shows only possibilities. Don’t fear “ghosts.”
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Lack of support. Alienation, emotional despair, heartlessness, insecurity, instability.
 “Unpleasant” woman. False loyalties or lack of morals. Adultery or divorce (verify this
 through aspecting cards). Environmental destruction. Miscarriage (verify before
 saying anything).
The Emperor
 Description:
 Quick! What do The Emperor and The Devil have in common? (Hint: They are both
 allegories for authority figures and you have probably worked for both of them at one
 point.) Okay, so this guy is not “pleasant,” but he is “the boss.” He sits on his stone
 throne bearing the symbols of Aries (the astrological sign, not the god). He is the prime
 patriarch in the Tarot. His rule supersedes even the Kings of all of the suits because the
 emperor in any feudal “empire” is the overlord, not just the reigning monarch of a
 particular provence. This is a man of action: scarlet robes, burgundy sash, armor worn
 on the throne, and attentive posture that is poised to spring at any moment.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 Patriarch. As The Empress is representational of the prime maternal energy and the
 matriarch of the Tarot, The Emperor is its father, grandfather, judge, jury, and
 executioner. This man’s authority is absolute. The inclusions of kings and queens and
 emperors into the Tarot reminds us that it was created in a time long gone, one where
 kings and queens lorded over all of the other residents of an area, usually under the
 guise of “protection.” This stigma continues to this day in multi-national corporate
 autocracies and plutocracies, where high-level executives have taken the place of their
 more transparent feudal counterparts. These systems of “government” survive because
 they work. As a group, such as “the general public” for instance, people like having
 someone in charge, someone they can rally to, or against, someone who will make the
decisions that very few want to make on a regular basis. Someone to blame when
 things don’t work. Thus, this outdated throwback to some political neolithic age will
 never go out of style. We will always need someone to tell us what to do and to
 complain to when someone does it (what we are “not supposed to do”) to us.
 Traditional meaning:
 Government. Any male authority figure: boss, judge, executive, decision maker, father,
 Cardinal (priest). This is the card of judgment or command (lawsuit, parking ticket
 being issued, summons, meeting with a “superior,” etc.) and also of the person or
 authority behind that command or judgment (e.g., “the IRS”). In still other words: it is
 the act of being told what to do, and the person who tells you to do it. As harsh as this
 may seem at first, it is this very structural dominance that makes this the card
 representational of the person or authority you would go to when you seek grievances
 against oppression or abuse.
 As a quality in a person, this card speaks of leadership ability, resoluteness of mind,
 capable use of logic and command-decision ability. This is not a person easily swayed by
 random emotions nor sob stories. A good manager, a reliable person of great character.
 As an action, this could be the issuing of a decree, or sagely advice. The Emperor
 implies the experience of age; and if this card is well aspected, then wisdom
 accompanies that experience.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Tyrants, dictators, corrupt public officials, vastly overpaid bosses. Also overregulation
 of a situation, micro-management, abuse of power and authority.
The Hierophant
 Description:
 The word hierophant comes to us from ancient Greece and our favorite mother
daughter team (Demeter and Persephone—is there anything they can’t accomplish?) and
 the priests (female and male) who guided the faithful into the “parts holy.” If you want
 the long version, you are just going to have to join the mystery school, so we will simply
 state here that The Hierophant has been “Christianized” (like so many of the Tarot
 concepts) to reflect the beliefs popular at the time of its creation. This card shows us a
 priest as an authority figure much like an emperor, rather than a guide to the divine. It
 shows religion as a state (system of government) rather than a path of philosophy. This
 is neither correct nor incorrect. It simply “is.”
 Esoteric interpretation:
 The original point of a hierophant was that while most members of the tribe toiled for
 the common good of their collective, a set few would spend their days and nights
 laboring in constant meditation, study, research, contemplation, questioning, debate,
 and sharing of their findings to the rest of the group for the benefit of all. The
 investment of one’s life searching out the meanings and mysteries of life, magic, and
 deep philosophy may sound like fun on the surface, but it is intensely demanding both
 physically and mentally. Students are taxed to the very edge of sanity, which is often
 where they find their greatest revelations on daily life. This position was no “life of
 luxury” and was an integral part of any society as they learned, preserved, and shared
the collected wisdom of the tribe (village, clan, family, hamlet, community...).
 As time progressed and religion became more structured and regimented, the ranks of
 “the learned” became as orderly as any government. “Good ideas” (don’t steal from your
 neighbor) became “laws” of society, and for all of the good this accomplished, it also
 entrenched religion into the very fabric of the governance of society and, therefore,
 religion came to be a governing body. This turned guides (priests) into overlords
 (priests), judges (also priests), and executioners (see Malleus Maleficarum, the
 Inquisition, the burning times, the Crusades, etc.). This means that the old concepts our
 card (above) once represented have been changed prior to the card’s (above) creation,
 even though it carries the old name, symbolic of the teachings mystery schools to this
 day seek to espouse. This makes this card dualistic and variable in interpretation
 (depending on one’s view of “organized religion”). We included the history lesson to
 remind the student that structure can be load-bearing (a good thing), or imprisoning (a
 bad thing) when it comes to spirituality. “Judge not, (this card) lest ye be judged” (or
 something like that). When this card comes up, take a deep breath and examine
 everything carefully.
 Traditional meaning:
 Orthodoxy—doing things “by the book,” and only by the book. Strict regimen. Morals
 and dogma. Social conservatism, conformity, institutionalism, obedience to tradition.
 Being preached to by someone either in authority, or by someone who presumes
 authority.
 Conversely: Professors, lecturers, priests (male or female), guidance counselors, or the
 act of receiving advice from any of these qualified experts. Higher education (only if
 aspected by supporting cards).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 The act of following tradition unquestioningly. Fundamentalism. Rule-mongering,
 bureaucracy, proselytization, browbeating, excommunication.
The Lovers
 Description:
 Here we have the prototypical “Adam and Eve.” (Apparently they were both blonde—
 who knew?) Throw out any esoteric or occult meanings for this card; it is straight out of
 the Bible: burning bush (although Waite calls it “the tree of life”), snake, tree of
 knowledge, that “Raphael” guy, and naturally that nondescript mountain in the distant
 background, and sea below (“phallus and chalice”). Really... Can you be ANY more
 blatantly obvious with your symbolism Pamela?
 Just for fun... compare this card directly to The Devil. It’s like one of those “before and
 after” scenes. Love is pain.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 The imagery of this card has been altered over the centuries by various artists to the
 point where you will find any number of meanings for this extremely simple but
 powerful card. On some decks cupid replaces the angel; other times it is a priest. Some
 cards will show two women where the man has to choose lust versus family. That is an
 oppressive puritanical spin on the fact that love is lust, and it is friendship, sacrifice,
 pain, heaven, and the magic of continued breath. The problem with replacing one of
 the most important “major” Arcana cards with a question of values is that it removes
 the single most powerful force presently known to humanity from the Tarot; thus
 reducing the value of this as an esoteric learning tool (and it takes away all of the fun
of divination). Besides: You try to explain to your client’s puppy-dog, hope-filled eyes,
 that “it doesn’t mean what you think: it means choice!” They will start calling you
 names and throwing things at you! We strongly recommend that you see “Love”
 when you see this card. This primal force is one of life’s greatest mysteries and will
 probably always be, no matter what advances science makes along the way. No
 matter what your opinion on the psychological roller coaster that love is, it makes the
 world go around and it is the very reason we invented money (which also helps
 rotate the planet). This card is not simply about “choices”; it is about partnership. It is
 about bonding, and having your heart ripped up into tiny little pieces every time your
 boyfriend, husband (etc.) is away. It is about the bonding and sharing of ideals that
 changes a world of individualism into one of communalism. Without this gooey, sticky,
 and all-too-often bitter emotion, we would have no great monuments, no masterpieces
 of art, no drive to improve the world around us. This card forever changes “one” into
 “many,” and many into one. This is the secret of high magic.
 Traditional meaning:
 Partnership, bonding, love, marriage, soul mates, deep lasting friendships. When you
 see this card in a reading, see it as a concept and look to see how it ties into other
 cards. Occasionally this will show up as an event, but more often it will need one or
 more “minor” Arcana cards to help clarify exactly what is coming to pass. This card’s
 energy is so vast and sweeping that it is best to interpret it through several other
 clarifying cards. When you are facing a client in a reading and this card comes up
 anywhere, the first thing they will do is point directly at this card and ask you what
 it means. What they are really asking, behind their hopeful expression, is “when?”
 This card represents the destiny that everyone seeks. Above all else we want to be
 admired, loved, worshiped, cared for, nurtured, and ultimately accepted by someone
 whose opinion we not only value but lust after. This card may often indicate a
 successful business partnership or the formation of a support group, but the imagery is
 so powerful that it will pull the all-consuming desires for acceptance and exclusive
 attraction from even your most stoic querents.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Pain. Then more pain. In fact, so much pain... Okay, so it’s not pretty. This shows
 separations (of all sorts): divorces, broken pacts, false friends, job loss; it is the
 removal of one from the source of life and happiness. Again, it needs to be clarified by
 other cards to find out the how and why.
The Chariot
 Description:
 Okay, take a nice, slow, deep breath... Warrior-priests riding about freely dispensing
 (their idea of) “justice” is as arcane a concept in most parts of the world today as
 chariots. The man here is not royalty, not a military hero, nor is he a wealthy merchant.
 He is the archetypal “warrior-priest” and “he is one with” his chariot of stone (faith,
 solidity, resoluteness, strength) which is, unsurprisingly, drawn by mythical beasts,
 thereby strengthening his “righteousness.” Forget the fact that the religious symbolism
 of this card is drawn from a dozen highly-incompatible religious beliefs. This man is
 sacrosanct. He is “the law” and the adjudicator of the law. He can’t fail (an
 impossibility) because “God” (over a dozen actually) supports him.
 Traditional meaning:
 Esoteric interpretation: (see above) Depending on the deck you look at, this card will
 be an emperor or prince on his “mobile fighting platform,” a priest on (or as above
 “part of”) a chariot, or a shiny red corvette. Thus, the subtle inferences change, but the
 basic meaning is clear to all. This man wins. This card shows us victory and power,
 but it does so in a style that equates being “right” (winning) with “being right” (as in
 “God” speaks through me—not you). It shows us an indignation that only The
 Hierophant (or the Queen of Swords reversed) can match. The danger of this message
 can be a “win-at-all-costs” mentality, or such a passionate, fervent belief in something
 that it blinds one into a mindset where the only option is the one that the ensorcelled
mind perceives. This is the card of zeal and several Tarot authorities assign to it the
 qualities of the astrological sign of Sagittarius. Personally, we couldn’t agree more. It
 has “politics” written all over it.
 Traditional meaning:
 Victory, but more. Righteous victory without having to sacrifice one’s morals or
 personal beliefs. This is a card of strength. You don’t win because you “got lucky.” You
 win because you are good at what you do, and/or you have powerful friends and
 resources. You succeed because you keep your animalistic rages under the control of
 your disciplined and highly-skilled mind. You harness the power of masculine and
 feminine (esoteric principles) and you are steadfast and resolute in your quest. Of
 course, sometimes this card can also simply mean “a brand new car!” or some long
 distance travel. In either case, however, it will be spelled out by clarifying “minor”
 Arcana.
 Compare this to the rune “Fehu” which means: domestic cattle, mobile wealth,
 possessions won or earned, abundance, financial strength, success and happiness. Also:
 social success, vibrant energy, foresight. And interestingly enough when reversed, this
 rune matches The Chariot rather nicely as well: loss of personal property, esteem,
 failure. Cowardice, poverty, loss of freedom, and so on.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Loss; almost always through a lack of skill, preparation, or a lack of “moral fiber.”
 Defeat due to either weakness or weakness of character. Being “knocked off of your
 high horse” (or fine social standing) through treachery and deceit. This is often called
 “character assassination” (which is a deliberate manipulation of facts to present an
 unfavorable, and usually untrue, picture). Cowardice leading to downfall. The “fall
 from grace.” The long and the short of this is that as a concept card, this indicates
 severe and sudden loss and needs to be clarified (like all “major” Arcana) to ensure
 clarity, and to prevent you from giving bad advice.
 Reversed, this card can even indicate auto accidents. (If you really suspect an accident,
 get all kinds of verification before you start spreading the news of impending doom, and
 even then be extremely careful what you say and how you say anything.)
Strength
 Description:
 (Note: In some decks this may be card 11, in others it is card 8. Either way it is still
 valid.) The image of a young woman calmly restraining a lion is a classic medieval
 image. It is a timeless allegory of one of the earliest “secrets” known to (wo)man.
 Femininity, seemingly harmless and needing of protection from the harsh realities of
 daily life by the strong protectorate of masculine rage, can (and has throughout time, too
 many times to count really) destroy the strongest man with a smile. This woman is in
 tune with her innate powers and prowess as a woman as symbolized by her garlands and
 the infinity symbol floating above her head. She owns this kitty.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 Strength in all its forms—physical, mental, emotional, comes from will. Deep inside
 every giant and every miracle worker is a fierce determination to a cause. That
 determination can be a quiet one, or it can be loud, and fueled by rage. It can be
 ignited by a spark, or it can be an ongoing passion that is as much a part of life as is
 the breath we draw. It is fed by purpose, by the feeling of being supported by others
 who mean something to us. It can be gained from a belief we hold, song we hear in
 passing, or a single phrase we read in a book. Desire is a great motivator to create this
 determination, and need is the most powerful motivator of all. Think carefully on this,
 for below all of our plans and dreams lie these subtle impetuses. These are destiny
 makers, and this is the root of all magic. Therefore, this card is the root of all magic.
This is the conveniently hidden tool of The Magician, and it is how he makes his
 candle(s) burn at both ends simultaneously, even to the chagrin of gravity. This is the
 shaping of the Laws of Attraction and Repulsion, and the conjuring up the powers of
 the other mysterious laws of might and magic.
 Traditional meaning:
 Perseverance is called for. This doesn’t mean “wait.” It means use a gentle hand (one
 with an iron grip if you happen to have one handy). You don’t “snap” a lion’s jaws shut.
 You keep applying pressure until like any other cat he gets tired of fighting you and
 tries it your way for a moment. The trick is not closing a cat’s mouth, it is keeping the
 cat from squirming and clawing you to shreds while you are doing this. And that is
 what the Strength card is all about.
 Take your time. Stay with this. Do not give up, not now. Not ever. Surrender is defeat.
 When you see this card, it is a warning, an omen, a command of patient application of
 inner strength. But always remember that strength does not mean stupidity. If you are
 in a bad relationship and the Strength card shows up in a card position of “advice,” this
 card is not telling you to “grin and bear it.” It is telling you to draw on your inner
 strength, draw from the source (from friends, from your deity, from your inner desires,
 etc.) and take whatever actions that are indicated by the other cards. Do so from a
 position of strength, even if that means “running away.” Sometimes it takes more
 courage to leave than it does to stay in a bad situation. There is the devil you know
 versus the devil you don’t.
 If this card shows up as a character quality in a person, it is a good indicator that you
 can rely on that person. In a job it lends itself to stability and tenure, and the ability to
 make decisions with enough autonomy to be truly effective in that job rather than just
 another corporate placeholder in line. In almost every case, the querent is “the woman”
 and not “the lion.”
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Except here... now you get to be “Mr. Lion.” Occasionally this card reversed will show
 being dominated (we hear that some people are actually into that), but not just by a
 “woman.” This could be an alcohol, food, sex, or drug addiction (look for Cups and
 Swords obviously). Other times it will show weakness, fear, hesitancy, or running
 away from issues.
The Hermit
 Description:
 An old guy stands “atop the mountain” (some say the edge of a cliff) and holds up a light.
 He is old. Really, really old. That’s about it. Of course, it is entirely possible to look at the
 “contained” (captured, harnessed, stolen) “light of God” (and won’t he be happy to find
 out that’s missing!). It’s that six-pointed star thingy inside his otherwise empty lantern
 (no candle, no fuel or wick...). So this stolen “light of God” he has “mastered the
 knowledge and use of” allows him to penetrate the veil of mysteries that mere mortals
 (basically anyone sensible enough to stay home in a nice comfy warm bed on a snowy
 night) cannot see. Therefore, he is “better” than us. That is until “God” finds out he stole
 his pointy star and put it in a lamp.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 A long, long time ago, Prometheus, one of humanity’s best friends, stole fire (back)
 from the gods and gave it (back) to humans, and saved us all from certain destruction.
 Zeus did not like this one bit. In fact, he disliked this thwarting of his will (ego) so much
 that he chained our hero to a rock where a vulture (some say an eagle) ate his liver—
 daily. For years. In fact it took Hercules (another friend of humanity) to kill the bird (it
 was an “evil” bird) and free our (other) hero. The moral of this story? Wisdom equals
 pain. Moreover: There is no magic without sacrifice (sorry). Esoterically,
 Prometheus’ theft of fire has a metaphysical meaning in addition to the obvious
 physical connotation of survival. Fire is the element of creativity, it is the “spark of
life,” and the mastery of it is one of the fundamental points of humanity—that which
 separates us from every other (known) species.
 Similarly: One does not gain “the light of God” without faith, practice, and study (lots of
 study). Our friend (the creepy old guy in the picture) looks down on us, shining his light
 both to help him deepen his own knowledge as well as provide a beacon for those of us
 who prefer to witness “the light of God” through a nearby window from our comfy warm
 beds on a snowy night. The pursuit of wisdom is not for everyone. Some of us just want
 to have a comfortable life, make babies, and die happy and popular. This is why we need
 creepy old guys with funny lanterns lighting the way for us, so that it is easier to achieve
 these lofty goals while avoiding the various potholes along our individual paths.
 Traditional meaning:
 As a person—a college professor, any teacher, therapist, consultant, researcher, or
 priest (male or female—and not necessarily “old” nor creepy); one who seeks “truth” or
 provides advice. There aren’t a lot of prophets running around these days, so it could
 easily be any elder who has wise counsel, a (reliable and wise) religious leader, or even
 a sherpa should you be in the Himalayas at the time of the reading. Otherwise, it is
 usually an institution (vocational school, junior college, university, or any of the
 teachers said to inhabit such locales). This card is usually too “big” to simply imply a
 person who gives you advice, so open it up or look for aspecting cards to determine the
 full extent of the meaning behind this card.
 As an action or an event it can indicate deep, intense study, or enrolling in any of the
 schools above. Conversely, it has a secondary meaning: that of withdrawing from
 society. If you suspect this at all, you should definitely open it up, as this withdrawal
 could be the reaction to depression, drug use, a loss of friends, or running away from
 any other unpleasantness. The act of withdrawing is not in and of itself bad. Try to
 determine the motivation for this act and see if the response is equitable (called for).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Sometimes we can run away from problems by being hyper-social. Instead of quiet
 reflection, we do everything we can to hide from “the voices in our head” (the good
 ones). This can also indicate not listening to advice, not spending time learning
 necessary information, bad advice, or false professionals (scams, cult leaders, pop
messiahs), refusing to rest and recuperate.
Wheel of Fortune
 Description:
 This is a fun card (be sure to see the “funny captions” section). A giant orange wheel
 emblazoned with various letters spins randomly as three mythological creatures take
 their turn “on the wheel” while others record the events of the day. The whole of it takes
 place in some similarly mythological location (in the clouds). Note that these clouds
 provide our little group privacy and comfy platforms on which to recline, but not a hint
 of rain or lightning.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 “...and the wheels of the bus go ’round and ’round.” For all we plot, do, and hide from,
 the whole of everything keeps moving along with us along for the ride, and when we
 are gone, it just keeps going. Such is the way... Part of being human is to personalize
 our experiences here, to see the world around us as we exist in, rather than a whole
 of which we are a part (an important one), and that means that we all too often take
 things very personally. This is important in so many ways, as it is the catalyst for
 inspiration and invention. It is the stimulation of artistic endeavor which reveals itself
 in incalculable ways. But “taking things personally” is also the cause of more human
 suffering than any other core psychological reaction—ever.
 Thus the beauty of this card is that it is simultaneously impersonal and intensely
 personal. “Stuff” doesn’t just happen. “Stuff” happens to you. Other “stuff” happens to
people you will never meet, and you never know they are any worse the wear for what
 has transpired, so really it is not your problem to even think about. The trick (on the
 surface) appears to be to stay “on top” of the wheel at all times, thereby avoiding the
 “ups and downs” of life; but really that just makes you a hamster on a wheel, always
 investing all of your attention and energy trying to avoid pain and inconvenience. The
 wheel never stops. The lesson here is to enjoy the good times while they last, and
 when you can no longer avoid “being on the down side,” minimize your exposure and
 ride through the cycle safely. This card teaches us to stop taking things so
 personally, and to look at the greater scheme of things rather than obsessively
 focusing on the instant gratification of daily distractions.
 Traditional meaning:
 It’s really hard to overstate the “face value” if it is facing up; it really is a very good
 card. Things go your way, plans come together. In essence, you are swimming
 downstream in the great flow of the universe (the current pushes you along, so you end
 up going faster and further with less effort). Some authorities like to compare this card
 to the notion of one’s karma; but really, what is karma without dharma anyway? You
 can’t earn any karma unless you have some personal dharma to start with. In non
gibberish terms: You are you. Be you. Don’t run around trying to be something you are
 not. Yes, yes, yes!! Develop yourself! But do so along your lines of purpose and innate
 strengths and deepest desires. The trivialities of “popularity” and “success” will come to
 those who are so true to themselves that they create real (and often unique) values to
 society. “Play to your strengths” and you will do well. This card shows us that
 everything has cycles, and that the only thing we truly own are our character traits.
 When we prepare for life’s “ups and downs” by developing our own individual
 strengths and qualities, our passions, and our inner resources, we will find others who
 support us both when we are “up” and when we are “down” instead of simply on the
 day we are popular.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Well, it’s been fun, but... Okay, so if this card is reversed, it’s definitely time to limit
 your exposure, take nothing for granted, plan carefully, save your pennies, and get
 new friends. This indicates challenges (yaay!) and opportunities coming from work
 (ugh!) and sacrifice.
Justice
 Description:
 (Note: In some decks this may be card 8, in others it is card 11. Either way it is still
 valid.) “Our lady of justice” sits on her throne between the twin pillars the Tarot uses to
 illustrate authority, a bland drape behind her. A sword is raised high in her right hand,
 scales in her left, and the obligatory crown on her head also indicating the supremacy of
 her authority, for Justice can do no wrong (a purely metaphysical concept). What is
 interesting is her solid red robe of action. She “only looks” like a judge sitting (er... in
 judgment). Her robes and slightly extended “leading foot” belie her otherwise passive
 stance. She is judge, jury, and executioner (we have seen this before in two other Tarot
 cards). But she is the force behind other power. She is pure.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 The esoteric concept of justice implies a natural order to the universe, a baseline
 or rudimentary set of laws that govern the resulting chaos of so many individual
 forces acting upon each other. This is a highly popular notion, one at the very core of
 all but a handful of the world’s religions, and the foundation of scientific research. This
 card is representational of one of the greatest of all “secret” laws, that being the
 Manifold and Mystic Law of Cause and Effect. It is both “manifold” and “mystic”
 because there are just too many variables to account for everything (see also “chaos
 theory”). You can’t have a reliable “effect” if the bedrock of science or philosophy is as
 fluid as water. Hers is the hand that turns The Wheel. But please remember that Lao
Tzu correctly admonished us that “Nature is not human-hearted.” We keep inventing
 new ways to contain human aggression, but in so doing only create more human
 oppression. True justice is inherently personal. It comes from within, or it is merely the
 punishment of animals.
 Traditional meaning:
 This card is institutional when physical and conceptual when esoteric. First, the
 physical meanings: This card can indicate actual locations, such as city halls,
 courtrooms, law offices, prisons (eek!), and political establishments. It is imperative to
 open this card up or find aspecting and clarifying cards to enhance your correct
 interpretation of this rather vague card. On an esoteric level, this card denotes “justice”
 (as in payback, vengeance, or “karma”) and applied social moral values. Once again,
 clarify the meaning before attempting interpretation. As an event, this card can
 indicate a successful resolution, restitution, or settlement in your favor. Of course, this
 is mildly infringing on Judgment’s divinatory turf, but as these two cards are so
 densely intertwined it should not come as a surprise if they show up in a spread
 complementing each other. But back to this chaos thing. Chaos theory states something
 about butterflies and hurricanes, and what they are really saying is that sometimes the
 most seemingly inconsequential thing can be the tipping point in the direction of which
 way a huge decision falls or process ends up. Justice says “you may not see all of the
 reasons for this decision, but it will make sense,” so it’s best not to take things too
 personally if you don’t get everything you wanted from the situation.
 One last thing, just for fun: For those of you who really need a little extra pain to get
 through the day, here is a cute little metaphysical mind-bender—Justice is the card you
 would use for dharma, or correct causality in your magical workings to effect your “Laws
 of Attraction and Repulsion,” whereas The Wheel represents the resultant karma or
 effect.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Sometimes the bad guys win. Someone is conspiring in the background. Sycophants,
 “yes-men,” office politics, drama, unfavorable treatment, and possibly being on the
 losing side of any large battle (clarify everything through aspecting cards before
 deciding meaning). If this card comes up reversed in the present or the future, continue
 reading to find out who is doing what to whom, and then toss out the Roundabout
 spread to find out how to undo or avoid these nefarious cretins.
The Hanged Man
 (or “Hanging Man”)
 Description:
 Before you do anything else, stop and turn this card around so that the card is upside
 down. Now look at him. Squint your eyes if you have to, but use those amazing powers of
 visualization you are developing to see him on the deck of a ship. He is now (when the
 card is upside down) in the classic pose of a sailor dancing a jig. Why, why, why? The
 other masters have inferred the associations with the element of water but they never
 bothered to tell anyone (except maybe their students) about this part. They really should
 retitle the card once and for all as The Hanging Man, instead of The Hanged Man. The
 current card title has caused far too much confusion for far too many years—most in the
 name of “secrecy,” so don’t tell anyone we told you.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 So why is he dancing upside down? Sailors placed their hands behind their backs when
 they danced for a number of reasons: it kept them from flailing about in an
 undignified manner, and it certainly kept them from slapping into things (like people,
 and lines [ropes], masts, and other boat “stuff”). It also was a rather controlled
 (“manly”) placement. The pose here (when the card is upside down) shows our friend
 midleap, with the classical “pointed toe” of a ballet dancer, and the kicked up heel (as
 in to “kick up your heels”) mid-leap. Dancing has always been the primal and even
 ultimate celebration of life. We didn’t always have televisions to waste our lives in
front of, so when we finished the chores of the day, we rested a bit, gathered with our
 friends, drank lots of alcohol, and danced. This is the way it has always been, in
 almost every society throughout time, but especially in the European ones that
 spawned the whole “mystery school” paradigm. Dancing is the celebration of life.
 Dancing is life, in a “daily life” kind of way, just the same as crappy jobs are (another
 constant for the masses of society). Dancing is the fun part of life. In most dances men
 and women were allowed to touch each other. (Oooh!) Try touching some
 random stranger you find attractive the next time you are in public, see where that
 gets you (be sure to have “bail money” in your pocket)! Thus, our friend above, the
 dancing man, is really “the non-dancing man.” The reason for his pose is to show his
 willful exit from society (and the touching of women). Then there is the halo. Are you
 seeing the pattern here? “Godliness” coming from abstinence. Sacrifice for a
 greater goal (and as they say... “What is greater than...?”). The legs are the “active”
 body part here. (Notice the heavy use of red? Waite was soooo predictable.) So there
 you have it. He is not “hanged,” or “hung.” He is stepping away from the joys of life to
 invest his time (his most valuable asset) in search of deeper meaning. He is looking for
 answers, but the halo in the image shows us that he is finding them, thus indicating
 that his time of waiting is already nearing an end. By the time this card shows up, the
 hardest part is over. Stay with it.
 Traditional meaning:
 Turning your back on routine and searching out answers. This could be a style of
 problem solving that is used by the person the card relates to (seeing things
 differently). Sacrifice for a greater goal. Missing out on “life,” but usually because one
 is preoccupied with something important. However, if this card shows up with, say,
 the 9 of Swords, and/or the 4 of Coins (you get the idea), you may be seeing someone
 who is afraid to live, or afraid of spending their money, time, youth, or some other
 valuable commodity. They are hiding from life. This happens quite a bit really, but like
 any other “major” Arcana card, you really need to tie it in to “minor” Arcana cards to
 give it definition. This card also shows a time of waiting, inaction, deep thought,
 passive magical exercises (meditation, prayer, “attraction” here as “seduction”).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Ahh, the joys of life—of being young and alive and free, without a care in the world!
 This is how those celebrity “billionaire babies” must feel every day, running from party
 to party, laughing mercilessly at all of “the little people” who actually have to work for
 a living. Oops! I used the “w” word. Silly me! This shows an abandonment of
 responsibility, study, effort, or bothering to care.
Death
 Description:
 Death rides a pale horse into town at sunset. Sunset, by the way, was the official ending
 of one day and the beginning of the next in Druidic calendars, which are the basis for
 much of modern paganism. Today’s calendars start each day at midnight (the daily
 equivalent of Yule), even though the sun rising every day is synonymous with spring,
 and “the time of waking,” both physically and metaphysically. Here a priest of some high
 rank begs for mercy, a king lies dead, a young girl falls over ill, and a very young girl
 looks at the pretty horsie. Perspective bequeaths reality. The king dies from his
 knowledge of nature, the priest begs because of his understanding of nature, the girl on
 the right falls victim to expectation, and the little girl sees wonder.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 “To everything there is a season...” The one constant in a universe of endless change is
 that everything that is born by definition dies at some point. “Death and taxes” are
 the two great equalizers (at least in theory). What is more important than worrying
 about death is actually living life so that by the time Death rides in on his horsie you
 are “so over it” and yelling at the poor guy that “he is late!” Note how Death is the
 thirteenth card. When the Tarot was devised, and through most of its major changes,
 the number 13 was feared. Before you laugh at the thought of anyone being afraid of a
 number (like say... one, two, oh my god! Three’s coming up!), the official term for this
 superstition is “Triskaidekaphobia.” To this day a good many high-rise buildings
politely exclude the thirteenth floor, going conveniently from twelve to fourteen (like
 the gods can be fooled that easily). Being afraid of a unit of math* (a number) is as
 silly as being afraid of this card. But people like their superstitions, so if your client
 freaks out because this card comes up in their reading, simply tell them that this card
 means “they will be getting a pony soon.”
 Traditional meaning:
 Death. But not usually. You see, there are only 78 cards, so the chance of any one card
 showing up is 1 in 78, which aren’t bad odds at all. Now in a multi-card spread like the
 Celtic Cross, the chances for any one card showing up (even before you start opening
 up cards, or the reading itself) drop to 1 in 7-point-something, depending on whether
 you use a significator (or two), or not. The chances of most people dying in the next
 30–60 days is hardly “1 in 7.” Thus, each card has to pull “double duty.” This doesn’t
 mean that the Death card will really start to mean that it’s “new pony time,” but it will
 also show things like endings and beginnings. Please remember that every “major”
 Arcana card is an allegory that must be deciphered.
 For example: If someone walked up to you and said in a sagely voice, “There is no
 spoon,” you might think (and rightly so) that they are both intrusive and insane. But if
 they explained (before you had a chance to run away from the crazy person) that the line
 they just used on you was a quote from the movie The Matrix and explained that a small
 child was explaining to the confused and very frustrated neo-messiah of the future that
 the whole of reality was just a figment of our imaginations (hmm... where have we heard
 that before?), all of a sudden it would make sense. You still may not like random
 strangers using oblique pick-up lines on you, but you would understand what they
 meant by, “There is no spoon.” That is why you want to open up or associate “major”
 Arcana cards with “minor” Arcana cards instead of allowing your clients to get the
 heebeejeebies every time a card comes up they don’t understand, and don’t like. Death
 means change. Big change. But where? Life? Divorce? Job? Is this part of a move?
 Death comes along and “shakes things up” (much like The Tower), but Death is
 intimately personal, whereas The Tower is impersonal and external. When you see this
 card, find out what changes your client is going through internally and help them with
 that.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Stagnation; refusal to let go. Holding on to outdated ideas. A boring life.
Temperance
 Description:
 “So we were like, at this rockin’ party last night, and get this—Archangel Mike was
 totally pouring these wicked jello shots...”
 Actually the angel is a woman* by most accounts, and in many of the most
 symbologically correct decks, it is a woman (angel or not). But that is less important
 than the fact that the image on the left tries to repeat a concept endlessly: two wings
 spread wide “balancing” just off of the ground, but also visually illustrating the concept
 of “balance,” pouring from one cup to another, standing both on the earth (lightly) and
 in the water, and the sacred (angel) visiting the profane (earth).
 Esoteric interpretation:
 (see above) “Temperance” is one of the four cardinal virtues in ancient Greece, and
 thus through Rome became one of the four cardinal virtues central to the Catholic
 Church (and thus the Tarot). Even Buddhists admire it, claiming it as one of their five
 precepts. But it is far older than any of that. Here it is in “secret mystery school lingo.”
 Ready?
 Nothing too much
 “Nothing too much” is a potent yet delicate, feminine (as in the power of feminine
persuasion—which is obviously not all about “sex”) expression of a harsher “moderation
 in all things” commandment. You see, even the phraseology of it expresses, breathes the
 essence of the wisdom. It neither offends nor does it withhold. It is as powerful as a rock
 thrown at one’s head, but as gentle as the caress of a feather. This is the reason we have
 “mystery schools”: to teach life’s lessons in ways they can be easily assimilated and acted
 upon by not just the student-seeker but by the general populace as well. If only a handful
 of society’s citizens were applying the methods and precepts of civilization, that
 collective of humans would dissolve into barbarism within a generation. This is the
 essence of the Temperance card. It shows the need for the application of divine
 inspiration and virtuous existence. By stating it so softly the voice may go unheard to
 many; but it is still far more effective than shouting, where it will only gain resistance
 among those who do not understand the message. (Try shouting at the next person who
 doesn’t understand you, just for fun.)
 So where did this delicate phrase make its appearance in history and influence empires
 and the world’s great religions? This message appeared on the right pillar at Delphi (the
 left read something to the effect of “Know Thyself.” Please see our secret mystery school
 text Aphrodite’s Book of Secrets for more on this). The message is timeless, but the
 expression is best when whispered rather than shouted, phrased gently but firmly rather
 than weakly, or worse, with pointed words. This card shows us the value of the
 alchemical process of combination and of enjoying right up to the limit of “excess”;
 thus being able to find everything we want in life without the hassles of punishment or
 lack.
 Traditional meaning:
 Teamwork works. None of us is as smart as all of us. Properly blended energies
 make “magic cookies.” Success is a recipe. Failure comes from any number of
 deviations in that recipe (too much salt, not enough baking time...). Draw together
 your resources and use them to reach your success. Do all of the above until exhausted
 and then rest. Start again when you are refreshed. If time is short, split your team into
 separate groups so that activity is ongoing but no one is overtaxed. Note this card
 blends two major meanings into one overarching message: do correctly.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Imbalance, bad planning, poor execution, lack of wisdom, rushing anything. Too much
 of this, not enough of that. Too much at once. Selfishness, prima donnas, lack of
 understanding.
The Devil
 Description:
 This is another fun card, one your clients will no doubt enjoy seeing in their spread.
 Señor Diablo is waving at the crowd for the publicity shots in hell. (They were going for
 an image makeover that never really caught on). It’s not so much that he is trying to hide
 his torch as it is that he lit the man’s tail on fire for effect. Leave aside all of the endless
 arguments of “Christian devil versus Eliphas Lévi’s* pagan horned-god rendition” and
 just call this guy the Devil and be done with it. He perches on his throne and Adam and
 Eve get to rot in hell for all eternity (until you turn the card upside down of course).
 (*his cool nom de plume)
 Esoteric interpretation:
 This card really is a mish-mash of religious symbolism that would give Jung
 nightmares in its inconsistency. It is the ultimate bondage card, but it is also a “get
out-of-jail-free!” card, a warning of the excesses of enjoying life, too much
 responsibility, the effects of tyranny, complacency, bad partnerships, lack of foresight,
 and the dangers of playing with matches. The (Christian) devil allegedly promises fun
 but in the end only brings pain. Whether that is true or not (we haven’t met the guy so
 we are not 100% certain of this fact), the emphasis of this meaning is the loss of “life”
 that folly brings. This goes back to The Hanging Man (or The Hanged Man to the
 uninitiated). This is the esoteric state of the dancing to exhaustion, the hangover after
an “all-nighter,” the drudgery of endless routine, or the seemingly endless contractual
 obligations after one has committed to a quest.
 Traditional meaning:
 When this card shows up in a reading, it usually indicates physical incapacitation.
 “You are stuck—here.” This could be a bad marriage, a boring job (with the obligatory
 evil boss), an extended hospital stay, waiting—endless waiting for other people to
 fulfill their obligations so you can move on, or any other slow systematic torture that
 seems well beyond the control of your client to change or eliminate. As such, it needs to
 be opened up to find the root cause of this, and then re-opened to find the “way out.”
 This is obviously a concept card and almost never directly relates to an individual or a
 single event, unless it is speaking as a purely visual example of your client’s emotional
 experience (“That ‘mandatory office Christmas party’ was four hours of hell while I
 was hit on by every upper-management troglodyte over 50!”).
 Occasionally this card will (like the devil) play tricks on you and show up as variations of
 its central theme. This is why we avoid hard, fast meanings in the Tarot. For one client
 of yours this card may be the ruination brought on by some action or lifestyle (“Hi, I lost
 my job, my wife, my great life to the evils of alcohol...”) and thirty minutes later another
 one of your male corporate executive clients comes in who is being sued by his
 dominatrix and he is afraid that his wife will find out and divorce him (this is a poetic
 interpretation by the Tarot, combining the meanings of oppression, bondage, and a
 sense of hopelessness). This card is the embodiment of evil in a philosophical sense and
 in a very real “so and so did/is doing this to me” kind of way. It is far more important to
 understand how to tease answers from this card than it is to memorize any set
 interpretations.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 This is where the “get-out-of-jail-free!” part comes in. When reversed, The Devil
 indicates a release or an escape from oppression. Again, this can be on a number of
 levels. It’s like squeezing a giant pimple. It’s not very pretty, but the release of pressure
 that has been nagging at you for what seems like forever feels good in an almost
 “guilty pleasure” sense. Unlike Death, where things are usually pretty cut-and-dry, The
 Devil oozes along, leaving a trail of odor that lingers for a while. While this indicates
 that the worst is over (leaving that bad job, abusive relationship, beating cancer, etc.)
 there is still both stigma and consequence that has to be cleansed before things can be
 “totally normal” again.
The Tower
 Description:
 “God” is not happy. Lightning strikes at (the Tower of Babel in this version) and the
 “crowning achievement” of mankind is torn asunder while both architect (designer of
 this masterpiece) and emperor (facilitator and caretaker of this enterprise) are thrown
 from its heights. Firey yods accompany our unlucky victim’s free-fall descent. For added
 effect, fire escapes from the windows showing that even stone can burn; and, of course,
 the ground to which our erstwhile geniuses are falling is rocky and jagged. Just in case
 we miss any of the “added” symbolism and thereby fail to realize how unhappy of a
 situation this is, it also happens during the dead of night.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 “There is nothing the hand of man can create that the hand of God cannot destroy.”
 This is a simple “ego-check” for all who aspire to power, most notably the domination
 of humanity to the point of challenging the gods themselves. The tower in The Tower
 represents the raw collective power of humanity’s ability to band together in physical,
 mental, and emotional congruency to harness resources and create physical and
 psychological monuments of function and form, and ultimately how empty those
 achievements are if the soil they are rooted in is devoid of the nutrients of divinity. The
 Tower warns those in power not to hold themselves too highly lest greater powers than
 they control come along and destroy both achievement, creator, and possessor. This
 relates back to the old axiom that “history is written by the victors” (of war). History is
littered with great accomplishments that have been destroyed and even written out of
 history (forgotten forever) because the creators or inheritors of said monument,
 system of belief, or accomplishment lacked the humility to either the divine or to the
 people they served. In short, someone or something slew the indestructible giant. The
 unwritten message in this overtly Christian card is that “God works in mysterious
 ways,” meaning that the destruction wreaked may not be the flashy and dramatic
 lightning bolt, but a poorly cemented stone that allows the tower to fall in on itself, or a
 janitor who leaves the door open for thieves, or even the earth giving way under all of
 the weight of “authority.”
 Traditional meaning:
 “And stay out!” Okay, let’s look at change in the “major” Arcana. We have Death
 (“Poof! Be gone!”), The Devil, reversed, (“Quick! The guard’s not looking! Let’s get OUT
 of here!”), and now The Tower. This is the very earth shaking the house down to the
 foundations. Death is a highly personal experience (usually internal) that can affect
 many, whereas The Devil is almost always an external experience involving people or
 situations close by. The Tower can be either of these, or it can be monumental in scale
 or meaning.
 The Tower is most often external change relating to job, residence, paradigm, or
 “traditional authority.” It is a direct challenge to our perceptions and beliefs. It can be
 the first shot in the revolution or it can speak for the revolt itself. It is not necessarily
 unpleasant, but it is sudden and it is a major change. This card can just as easily point to
 a divorce or an auto accident as it could quitting your cushy job and retiring to Spain to
 grow wine grapes. It is a spooky card, but only to those who are afraid of losing what
 they have in exchange for something “new and different.” Once you have tracked down
 exactly what this card represents and when it will come to pass, be sure to look beyond it
 and see what is on the other side, and how large the fallout will be. This will help you
 advise your client better.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Many traditionalists still see this as a “bad” card. We have found in our experience that
 this card indicates a time of rebuilding. Obviously, rebuilding can only come after a
 period of disruption and chaos, and that is an awful lot of stone to move, so this does
 not indicate an “easy,” or overly “joyous” time, but it does indicate second chances,
 and time to learn from one’s mistakes.
The Star
 Description:
 A giant star dominates this picture (this holds true for various artist’s renditions of this
 card—not just this particular deck). This star is, in turn, supported by other, smaller
 stars. A naked woman pours water from two pitchers; one into a small pool, the other
 onto the ground, where it splits into five rivulets. She kneels on the earth and the water
 for support showing us that she bridges the barriers between the two. The
 surrounding land is lush and fertile. A bird watches in the background. Some say this is
 an Ibis. In other variations of this card it is a butterfly. It is important to note that all of
 this takes place at night (naturally).
 Esoteric interpretation:
 This is the single most misunderstood card of the Tarot. Most authorities attribute this
 card to the astrological sign Aquarius, and give the simple interpretation of “hope,” as
 if that is all you need to know. Generally, when you see The Star you can have hope;
 good things will come to pass. Well, that’s all fine and nice; but let’s really look inside
 and see why everyone seems to accept this vague meaning of happiness. First: the
 name of the card is The Star, not “The Naked Lady Who Pours Water Onto the
 Ground.” The single most important visual stimulus here is the star, not all five, seven,
 eight, or fifteen stars (various decks have various numbers of minor stars, so assigning
 any value such as chakras, physical senses, (etc.) to the actual number of stars is
 ludicrous). The woman pictured is the personification of the main star in the image,
which, in turn, is “ The Star.” She is naked because she is divine, pure, and a “star.”
 Her human form is nothing more than a visual representation of energy or purpose
 that has been used throughout history in mythology, magic, and religion. See her as
 “the star,” not “the naked lady.” See her as “she who bridges the realms.”
 Okay, so now that we have successfully belabored that point, here is what it all means: A
 star shines or radiates light, which becomes one hundred times more important at night
 (in the “dark times’” than during the day when everything is happy and sunshiny). She
 is “radiating” her energy (pouring from containers) into the pool (the measurable ether,
 or what we know of the spiritual realm), and simultaneously on the earth. This
 essence “fills” the spirit realm and nourishes the earth. Star’s energies penetrate (they
 “see all” from far above) and so her energy seeps into every (humanly) measurable
 “thing.” She is the source of the nourishment of life, and the source of the energy which
 “magic” manipulates into form and function. This is why the card represents “hope.” It
 is a visual representation of Hekate, the “goddess of magic.” (This is really a savage
 understatement.) Hekate is one of the most powerful goddesses of mystery school
 traditions, for it was she who assisted Demeter to find her lost daughter when every
 other god and goddess turned their backs against her (and thus humanity), fearing the
 wrath of Hades, or being too self-obsessed to care. This card is a clear visual
 representation of Hekate freely giving her assistance both in the earth and the ether
 (the “spiritual realm,” “the underworld,” etc.). Therefore, this card is representational of
 “assistance from the gods.” Use it to mean the flow of magic happening to make your
 dreams come true. Use it to represent any goddess you are calling upon, or if you prefer
 your own “godhead” or “superconscious mind” simultaneously reaching into the ether
 and the physical world to create a spiritual resonance (“P.M.E.”*).
 Traditional meaning:
 Hope. Faith. Magic. More to the point: When this card comes up, it shows a need to, or
 the action of, reaching out to the gods for assistance. It is “divine assistance” coming to
 play. If you are already praying, this is a positive response. If you haven’t started
 praying, this card asks what you are waiting for. It is situations getting better
 through divine intervention (so you know who to thank).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Just turn the card around. Or: hopelessness, despair, lack of spiritual connection.
The Moon
 Description:
 A combination moon (both crescent and full) looks down on a wolf, a dog, and a lobster
 (“So a wolf, a dog, and a lobster walk into a bar...”) with two fortress towers standing
 guard over the path that leads straight from “Mr. Lobster” to the distant mountains.
 Moonlight yods fall to the ground, symbolising the rain of ethereal moonlight energy.
 It is more important to “get to know” your Moon card and decide exactly what it means
 to you on a regular basis than it is to keep looking for answers from other authors. This
 card is not necessarily negative, but many authors believe it so. Decide for yourself how
 you feel about The Moon.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 The moon really got a bad rap in the Tarot. When the Tarot was invented, and
 during its major revisions over the centuries, the moon (“luna”) was “known,” by
 scientific minds at of the time, to cause mental illness; hence the long-standing
 association of the moon with lunacy (insanity in all its forms). You can blissfully
 ignore all of this if you want to use The Moon in your magical or meditative workings
 to illustrate the moon (the one in the sky).
 If, however, you want to harness the handy stockpile of thought-energy (the galvanic
 psychic battery of long-standing collective belief) this card represents, then look at the
moon (the one in the sky) as “reflected sunlight” of various quality—amount and
 filtration, such as clouds, pollution, depth of atmosphere, that being your current
 altitude—and, therefore, an imitation of the source: unpure, diluted, and
 deceptive. If you really want to have fun with this, do all of your magical work left
handed (sinister) and walk backwards if you can do so without falling over or bumping
 into stuff.
 Traditional meaning:
 (mostly negative, really) Confusion. Deception (see above), hidden enemies, lies,
 illusions, alcoholism, drug use, addiction of any kind, hysteria (specifically),
 indigestion and/or heartburn. Rumors: watch your back at work or in close-knit social
 circles. Is someone you know talking behind your back? It is especially important to
 verify this (through aspecting cards) before you start making accusations. Also:
 mysteries, paranoia, unfounded accusations. Denial.
 Less overtly negative associations: menstruation, psychic powers, detective work,
 occult powers, secret organizations, seafood (yes, really—especially shellfish), issues
 associated with the breast or stomach, maternity (look for verification of pregnancy, or
 pregnancy issues in related cards and/or in aspecting and clarifying cards). This card
 can also portend romance if it is positively aspected by a positive Cups card, and
 possibly Coins as well. Also: poetry, creative inspiration, romantic locations and
 activities. This is another card of the “subconscious mind,” whereas The Sun is the
 “conscious.”
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Deception revealed. Light is shined on the denizens of the darkness (and don’t expect
 them to be happy about it!). It’s not so much a time of “Truth” as much as it is the end
 of a time of deception and trouble. Someone very bad for you leaves your life. You
 leave a crappy job. This also could indicate kicking bad habits, ending (or strongly
 minimizing—and thus controlling) harmful addictions.
 These (above) all assume a negative Moon card association. If your standard Moon card
 association is a positive one, then reversed this card would be an ending or a removal
 of/separation from something positive in your life, most likely a gentle, nurturing source
 of security, romance, love, and quiet support. (In a man’s chart this might indicate the
 divorce of a good wife. The entire spread would have to point to this—but this is an
 example for consideration.)
The Sun
 Description:
 A baby (blonde naturally, he’s probably a Leo anyway) rides a white horse while the Sun
 looks on. Sunflowers tower overhead and the baby miraculously holds high a flowing red
 banner of relatively gigantic proportions. Note the Sun’s rays spread in all directions, the
 straight lines indicating the spread of light, while the wavy lines indicate the radiance of
 heat. This shows the Sun in its “infinite glory,” unobscured by those pesky clouds or
 eclipsed by the nascent moon. “Nothing can stop the power (and joy) of the Sun!”... until
 it sets (leaves you for some distant land), or you walk behind a tree, small hill, building...
 Still, all in all a happy card if you are into tan lines.
 Esoteric interpretation:
 This is the Sun über alles (before or above all others). Everyone knows the raw power
 of the Sun. It officially gives earth life. Haud sol solis, haud vita. (No Sun, no life.) In
 fact, the Sun is the single most worshiped object ever. In all parts of the world the Sun
 is equated with the local deities, mostly male, but occasionally female. The Sun is
 everywhere and is always welcome, although in the most harsh of desert climates it is
 often seen as a harsh master rather than a benevolent “god.” Kind of like a military
 drill instructor (“... hup, two, three, four! Get in line soldier! Did I give you permission
 to bleed? Walk it off mister!”). Face it: the Sun is a monster. It is big, really big: as in
 it’s over 100 times as big as us (Earth). It never sleeps (which is rather creepy when
 you think about it). It is always shining at us no matter which way we (the Earth)
turn, and if you look at it for more than a few seconds at a time, you will lose your
 eyesight very fast. The Sun is so hot that you could not even stand on it. In fact you
 can’t get close enough to stand on it, you would crisp up like a french fry a few million
 miles away from Herr-Sonne. We take the Sun for granted because it is always there,
 and by our standards “it always will be.” None of this changes the fact that it is big and
 powerful and it affects us in psychological and chemical ways we have yet to
 completely understand. This card represents all of that power in one overly simple
 scene.
 Unlike the energy of The Star, however, The Sun is cyclical. The Sun rises and sets,
 whereas the stars always shine, only blocked by the closest of them all (our all
encompassing Sun). When the Sun is “here” (during the day), nothing else matters.
 Rain, wind, and snow can block out the Sun for periods of time; but unlike night, we
 know that on the other side of those pesky clouds our giant ball of fire still shines for us,
 eating away at the barriers from the other side. (Are you getting this?) This gives
 us insight into the meaning of such a card. When The Sun is present, it feeds us life
giving energy. It gives us light and heat. It can also be overpowering in its delivery. It is
 so pervasive that we don’t even need to look at it to know that it is there, as its effects are
 everywhere. When The Sun is not present in a reading, we still know that it exists
 somewhere, shining on some distant land, and that the secondary effects still aid us, and
 we can draw off of them, even in the darkest of times, if we only learn how. We can block
 the great expanse of energy The Sun lends us (and as humans we often do) just as we
 can avoid sunlight by ducking under a tree, going inside a building, or even just closing
 our eyes to the light all around us. The Sun provides, but we have to accept. The Sun is
 no different. In order to win, you must be present.
 Traditional meaning:
 Success, usually after struggle. More specifically: energy and intent is being offered to
 you from various sources. This can be “divine intervention,” creative inspiration,
 physical assistance from others, loans of any sort, sound advice, etc. You are in the
 spotlight. People and “things” are looking to help you at this time, but you must be alert
 to opportunity and aid if you are to accept the goodies in store for you. Destiny is an
 opportunity— not a guarantee. Never forget that.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 Closing off from help; depression, paralyzing fear, lack of support.
Judgement
 Description:
 An angel toots his horn signifying the mythical day when everyone will be judged, and a
 select few will get toys and candy, and the rest will burn in hell forever, and ever, and
 ever. Amen!
 Esoteric interpretation:
 This is the end of the line. “The test is over. Please close your books and turn in your
 papers. You got about as far as you are going to get, and any of you who ‘finished
 early’ and have been waiting for the rest of the class can finally leave. Have a great
 summer everyone! See you next year!”
 This card actually draws from a number of religious beliefs from Christianity to
 Hinduism, Egyptian, and so on... No matter what belief you subscribe to (including the
 “non-belief”), this card is highly useful to call it “the end of the day” and move on.
 Whenever you want a card that means “I have had enough of this. I want it over now!”
 this is your card. Whatever you were doing, you are done with it now. This card has a lot
 in common with Death, or The Tower, but this is not simply a change of state
 alchemically, it is a change of state with a chemical reaction. (This is also why we have
 “mystery schools” to explain all of this esoteric mumbo-jumbo, but just go with us on
 this.) Judgement gives us “a say in the matter.” Some situations end and you just feel
 empty (Death), or like you have been cheated (The Tower), but Judgement is all about
having your voice heard (“... and another thing!..
 .”) before the curtain falls. It also indicates reports on your “progress” (being a double
edged sword). In legal matters, say small-claims, or divorce for example, this card shows
 you getting “your day in court,” where no matter what happens, you officially get
 redress. You are vindicated in some way, with the aspecting cards showing how much so
 and what happens as a result. In religious terms of “life and death,” it can mean just
 about whatever you want it to: resurrection, the final day when an angel comes along
 and collects everyone all at once (Imagine that line! What if you have to go pee? Do you
 lose your place in line?).
 Traditional meaning:
 Zombies. Well, they look like zombies to us (gray skin, rising from the dead...). This
 card indicates (as noted above) the end of something, but not necessarily the beginning
 of something else. It is both a “progress report” and a respite from action; a pause if
 you will. In the most simple cases it does indicate lawsuits or judgments in lawsuits,
 report cards, school graduations, breaking up after a loud shouting match. It simply
 represents the end of something and a marker stone placed in the Akashic Records that
 says “this happened and as a result...” Now it is time for something else, but what that
 is will be left up to you, and that old devil circumstance.
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 “... and so there I was at the party, trapped in the corner by this really creepy old guy
 who just kept going on and on about how he owned this company and that, and how
 much money and power he had, and...” Back in days when music was recorded onto
 vinyl, the circular disk had a long spiral that the “record player” needle sat in and
 responded to all of the little bumps, in turn, translating that into sound. But sometimes
 the “record” was scratched, and the needle would jump the groove and play the same
 section over, and over, and over... The effect was very annoying. This is “just like that.”
 You go around, and around, and look for a way out of this mess, but you can’t seem to
 find one. Perhaps it is time for a clean break—even if you have to make sacrifices to get
 off of this ride.
The World
 Description:
 A celestial woman (goddess) dances in the air with her twin wand candles (see The
 Magician), which she is the undisputed master of, not merely the possessor (also see The
 Magician). This is reinforced by her purple sash. She is surrounded by a laurel of victory
 that is also a portal to her home dimension, or a gateway to her. Four guardians sit in
 attendance: angel, eagle, lion, bull, representing various character qualities as well as
 the elements of awareness and existence. This “audience of mythical beings” is an
 ancient allegory used by various religions to illustrate the value and power of the central
 figure at the gathering. She is obviously “above and beyond” the limitations of all earthly
 influence (including gravity it seems).
 Esoteric interpretation:
 Tranquility, enlightenment, evolution. If the Buddha were a female (and one made a
 special guest appearance in the Lotus Sutra), this would be her. She is both source and
 seed, being the physical manifestation of and the spiritual essence of purity through
 experience and awareness. She has completed “the circuit” and passed all judgments,
 tests, and has moved well beyond such mundane concepts as “testing and progress.”
 She simply is. This is an existence far beyond the toils of the field or the wealth of
 nations. This is an existence of awareness embodied in human form, free of need or
 desire. She is a celebration of life unchained by any restrictions.
Some have said that “the universe will not end with a bang, but with a whimper,”
 suggesting that life will simply die out slowly as (measurable, or ‘light’) matter is
 stretched too thin to support itself. Suns will consume themselves and planets will
 simply be rare floating cosmic debris. One of the many things they have failed to
 consider by use of this prognosis is that energy can neither be created nor destroyed. In
 the very same way that “one man’s food is another’s poison,” the energy of the universe
 will evolve and metamorphose into something else eventually. Leaves bud, grow, drink
 in the light of the sun, breathe in carbon dioxide and breathe out oxygen, and eventually
 wither and die, falling to the ground, a seemingly empty husk of their glory. But to the
 tree who watches generations of its leaves die and fall away at its calling, these very
 same expressions of itself become future food for its own roots and that of its children.
 Nature may be rather cannibalistic, but it never “wastes.” This card represents the
 endless series of cycles of completion and renewal with each twirl of her double-ended
 candle wands. Her dance continues joyously even as the world turns, dies, and becomes
 something else entirely.
 Traditional meaning:
 This is a very happy card on the physical level. At its most basic it represents the
 pampered and the idle rich; those wonderfully happy people born into generational
 wealth (see 10 of Coins) who have nothing better (or worse) to do than to play all day
 and wonder how they will play all night as well. It truly is “the world at your feet.” The
 key to this card is that it is evolution on so many levels of meaning that it can easily
 apply to any situation. It is extremely ambiguous and all but demands clarification by
 accompanying “minor” Arcana cards to give it focus. This is another completion
 card, but as noted it is a card of evolution from one state to another. The alchemical
 correspondence is that of transmuting lead into gold. The base chemical composition is
 almost identical, but the elemental change is eclipsed by the perceived value change. In
 the same way, you stay “who you are” but become something much more valuable
 through this card. This is the the ultimate “happily ever after” card (compare to the 10
 of Cups).
 Traditional reversed meaning:
 “Leftovers again?” (or) “If I have to go back to that horrible job one more day...”
 Endless, meaningless, repetitive, redundant existence—“Every day the same thing:
 Breathe, breathe, breathe.” You really need a vacation right now. You are missing out
 on all of the fun in life. Go dancing!
Section Six
 “OKAY, SO WHAT DO I DO NOW?...”
“Okay, so what do I do now?...”
 If this is your first time reading through the text, and you have yet to actually get started,
 now is a great time to do so. Putting things off is a reliable recipe for them not getting
 done—ever. If you have worked your way through the book, and you have practiced each
 exercise, filled in the worksheets (either in the book or in a Tarot journal), and you have
 read through our suggested meaning of each of the cards, augmenting those with your
 on impressions of what each card says to you, then it is time for you to get out there
 and start reading for friends, family, and even strangers, if you can find anyone
 interested in a student reading.
 We hope that you have already registered at our Advanced Tarot Secrets website, and
 asked questions or helped out other students (and pestered the experienced members of
 the “secret societies” with endless questions in the forums). On the next few pages are
 the 60and 90-day study guides. These are only suggested study schedules and we always
 encourage you to take guidance from your teacher first and foremost. Our goal is to help
 you develop a lifetime skill quickly and easily, whether you decide to take your abilities
 to a professional level (because the world will always need skilled readers), or if you
 just want to have fun at parties, and generally making new friends.
 We encourage you to keep up your practice for as long as you can. Certainly at some
 point most of you will spend less and less time with your cards, but this moment in time,
 right now, is crucial to your education and your future. You have the ability to solidify
 your understanding of the Tarot, and to build a bond with your deck, a skill that will lead
 you to the next level of understanding. The next level is your ability to manifest your
 dreams and desires, using the “Laws of Attraction and Repulsion” to get what you really
 want in life—quickly and easily. Don’t worry though; if you do end up in our Advanced
 Tarot Secrets class, we will teach you the real names of the secret laws, not the dreamed
 up public faces they have. You will have a lot of fun working with these forces of nature
 that are all around you, without all of the authoritarian dogma the public is spoon-fed.
 Keep playing with your Tarot cards, and keep them handy so they are not forgotten, or
 set aside, because they can help you improve the quality of your life
 dramatically in as little as 30 days. As always, we are here to help. Oh! And be sure to
 look for our next fun and educational title in this series, The Easiest Way to Learn
 Astrology—EVER!! Thanks for reading. Now go have some fun!
Easy Study Guides
 (part 2)
 Over the next 30 days...
 If you need more than 30 days to accomplish all of the exercises go ahead and add a few
 days and don’t feel guilty about it, but try to do all of them over a period of 45 days or
 less, or you will end up avoiding learning the Tarot. Life has a habit of throwing
 things at us when we are unfocused. Being as you only have to learn the Tarot
 once, it is more than worth it to do it now while it is still fresh and exciting.
 Over the next 30 days, we would like you to keep up with your daily practice if at all
 possible; but if it is absolutely not possible, try to get in at least 30 minutes a day three
 to four times a week. This is time you need to be spending bonding with your cards, not
 memorizing meanings from a book (ugh!). The more you do these basic exercises, the
 more comfortable you will be when you are “on stage” giving readings. You will see
 patterns you recognize; and when you are casting actual spreads, you will have “real
 questions” cards relate to rather than an abstract notion of what the cards “might
 mean.” You will find answers come to you easily and your confidence in yourself and
 your deck will rise quickly.
 So... stay with exercises 1 through 11. If you are feeling a bit randy, try out some of the
 advanced exercises we have provided in the book and then look to find various ways
 you could describe these scenarios with cards. Also fill in the first set of quick and easy
 “Cheat Sheets” (be sure to do both the “major” and “minor” Arcana tables, but not
 necessarily in one sitting). Do these without looking at Sections Four and Five (or any
 other book, or online, or...). Skip over any of the cards that are giving you trouble at the
 moment. Just fill out what you know “right now.” Of course, we recommend you use
 a pencil or a light-colored pen in case you want to write over your answer a few minutes
 later. Once you have filled in all of the cards you are confident about, take a look at the
 overall feel of the table and make any adjustments or corrections that nag at you. Then
 look at the “holes” in the table, cards you may have skipped over or feel can use a bit
 more “depth,” and fill them in. Now, you can look in the back of the book, ask your
 teacher, or go online if you need. Refer back to this “Cheat Sheet” as often as possible
 over the next 60 days to see how you feel about these meanings and “key words.”
 Also start giving practice readings to any of your close friends who have been nagging
 you to “do them” or give yourself a reading about the next 30 days, or your future job, or
 give your cat a reading, or even a complete stranger if you get the chance (and find a
 willing stranger who will humor you). Once again, take anything you see in the reading
 as an interesting pastime, serious enough to pay attention to, but not so serious that you
believe it until you see it. This is your primary practice and experimentation time. By
 now you should be reasonably comfortable with the mechanics of casting a spread, or
 throwing out a few cards to answer simple questions. It is more important right now to
 get practice shuffling, cutting, and spreading your cards than it is to worry about what
 they say. You will start to develop certain preferences during this time that will
 eventually become the basis of your personal style of casting spreads over the years to
 come. Try shuffling and cutting your cards in many different ways and make the
 decision now about how you feel about other people touching your cards.
 The next 30 days... (roughly 60 –90 days from now)
 Now the fun really begins! Keep doing your exercises (all of them). Practice with your
 one-, two-, and threecard spreads, open up cards and spreads, use clarifying and
 aspecting cards, and do as many Celtic Cross, and Roundabout spreads as you can for as
 many people as you can, reminding each one of them (repeatedly if you have to) that
 this is “just for fun” even though you will do your best, and that they should take
 anything they see or you say as “fun advice” and just see what happens. Tell them that if
 you end up being right, they can come back later and buy you a coffee or tea. Now you
 should decide how you like to shuffle, cut, and turn your cards, and whether you will be
 reading cards reversed or not (at least in the near future—you can always change your
 mind later). Also develop your “yes or no” spread. These 30 days will be where you find
 out which of the basic spreads you like to work with the most, but make sure that you
 keep using a variety of spreads so that you don’t end up limiting yourself. It’s still a
 bit early to start reading every book on the Tarot you can get your hands on or trying out
 esoteric spreads, so don’t rush too much. You have years and years to more thoroughly
 develop your skills and styles of working with your deck(s); so take it slow now, and
 after a month or two of continual practice, start expanding on your repertoire.
 At the end of this 30 days (around 90 days from now if you keep working with your
 cards regularly), go through the second set of “Cheat Sheets” and write in your new
 answers (without looking at your old answers first). Make sure you fill in all of the cards
 (which should be no problem by now). Then sit back and compare them to each other.
 Now spend some time over the next few days with your cards coming up with funny
 captions of your own. Sit quietly with them and ask yourself what the people in the cards
 are saying or doing. Don’t worry if captions don’t come very quickly for all of the cards.
 We were reading for many years before we scribbled our first captions on our own cards.
 At this point, we do not recommend writing captions on your deck, unless you have the
 extra funds to purchase a special deck just for this exercise. Just think them up in your
 head, or go on to our website, and somewhere in the forums we will probably have a
 section where people can post their favorite captions for any card.
 The point of all of this is to help you expand your awareness of what each card can mean
in various situations, rather than just knowing some sacrosanct “traditional
 meaning” of any card. Remember that life breathes. Experience is a new thing daily, but
 the cards remain the same. Your cards have to reflect the variance of daily activities with
 only 78 pictures to work with, so they will need to stretch and contort their basic
 meanings occasionally to correctly answer your questions. This is why you are learning
 to listen rather than to memorize. You are not a parrot! You will even see your intuitive
 abilities develop before your eyes and you will be amazed at how your understanding of
 the Tarot coupled with your heightened psychic awareness and ability to physically spot
 relationships between objects will sharpen your abilities to solve problems and “predict
 events” on a purely material level. These are your first steps at using the Tarot to
 develop your psychic abilities. (Enroll in any credible mystery school—including ours,
 when we are accepting students—to learn more on how to do this.)
 Here are the first steps: Get a pen and paper (not right now, but during the 60-90 day
 “from now” period) and write down five things you want within the next 30 days. Then
 prioritize them by writing the numbers 1 through 5 next to them. Now carefully think
 about these things until you come up with one card to represent each one of these things
 you want. (This is where it is good to have a second or third deck to work with.) Tape
 those cards up in order of priority somewhere where you will see them every day,
 preferably several times a day, but where they won’t get wet, torn, or damaged. As to
 tape, we have successfully used that “magic” invisible ScotchTM tape to gently affix
 cards to walls, mirrors, etc. Use your best judgment. If you personally have any doubts
 as to as to whether the tape will damage your cards, don’t use it. But put the cards up
 where you will see them several times a day. Take a quick moment and focus on one
 card every time you pass by them. Think of what it means and what you are attracting.
 Then see how these results work for you. For more information, please see either our
 Advanced Tarot Secrets course or our Aphrodite’s Book of Secrets.
 Also, use your cards to solve problems. Think of some dilemma you face and pull out the
 smallest number of cards you need to directly and adequately illustrate the “problem at
 hand.” Now dig through your deck and come up with three-card solutions. If you need to
 use five cards, that’s okay too if it is a complex issue, but don’t just go for the obvious
 answer. Start with the obvious answer to get your mind working on the issue and then
 look for alternative possibilities. For future reference, jot down the cards you use for
 both the problem and various solutions.
 These various exercises and activities will sharpen your intuition, your reading abilities,
 and your problem solving capabilities as well. You will also find that your visualization
 skills will increase significantly, both in the quality of your images and the results you
 get. Over time you will find your bond with your Tarot cards bringing you many
 interesting benefits both esoterically and tangibly in the physical world, whether you
 attend “advanced training” or not. The Tarot, after all, is simply a visual stimulus to
assist the development of innate mental skills you have not been fully trained by other
 means. The magic is within you, waiting to be released. Thank you for sharing your time
 with us.
Appendix A:
Troubleshooting
 (what do do when...)
 Tarot reading is obviously not an exact science. In fact, it’s not a science at all; it is an
 art. That means sometimes things will go horribly astray (especially when you are first
 starting out) and you may get frustrated with your cards, or yourself. We have listed a
 few of the most common concerns among new students. If you need further assistance,
 please visit us online at EasyTarotSecrets.com.
 Problem: You cast your spread and (Surprise!) it tells you what you already know,
 or what you and your client just talked about, sometimes word for word (only in
 pictures). Times like these make you want to scream at your deck.
 Recommended solution to try: Smile. Better yet, laugh and pat yourself on the back
 for being such an amazing reader! Out of the infinite possible number of combinations
 the cards could have come out, you picked one of the few that matches up with what you
 already know. In fact, this verifies everything you know or have been talking about.
 That’s a pretty impressive trick that you were able to do that. (If you are sitting across
 from your client, make sure they know how special you are too.)
 Okay, this is actually a very good sign. Your deck has revealed what exists, and now you
 have all of those cards to use as one giant significator, or as individual significators to
 open up. First look to see if the cards reveal anything you don’t know. Usually in cases
 like this you will see 90 percent of what you know, and one or two cards will be pointing
 at something you have to clarify. People often go through life understanding a
 majority of their situation and “what they need to do” to make things better for
 themselves, but it’s that little part they don’t know that is the difference between stress
 and success. Look for that “extra information” in the existing spread. Once you have
 either found it or you have decided that it doesn’t exist, look to see if any cards need to
 be opened up. What is the motivation behind those cards? For example: Your client is
 asking about her boyfriend, and he shows up in her spread as the King of Coins. You can
 open him up to see what his motivations are, or what he is feeling or doing (that
 affects your client), what he is not revealing. You can open up any card in the spread, or
 you can proceed directly to the next step: Thank your deck (this is really a rhetorical
 thing, but it sets you in the right mental space) and then ask a simple question and do a
 one-, two-, or three-card spread on top of the existing spread, and continue asking
 exploratory “... and then?” questions without tearing down the spread until you have
 your questions answered, or you run low on cards and have to shuffle and re-cast. This
 is called “extending the spread.”
 Problem: You just don’t feel like reading for someone, or you are in the middle of a
reading and you “lose it”—suddenly your mind goes blank, or you (temporarily) lose
 contact with that part of your mind that is “in tune” with the cosmos. Now you are
 looking at a pile of cards with funny looking pictures on them.
 Recommended solution to try: If you just don’t feel like reading for someone—tell
 them, without hesitation. Try to be polite of course, as people will often get offended if
 you won’t read for them, as if you are personally insulting them. On the outside it looks
 like all you have to do is throw down some cards and explain what “they say” (as if they
 “always mean the same thing”). Successful Tarot reading is like professional massage. It
 “looks easy,” like you are just rubbing your hands on someone. Why should anyone pay
 for that?! You know differently of course, but it’s not something you can simply explain
 and have people come to your way of thinking. This is why you have to be polite but
 firm. Ask them if you can take a rain check, or “reschedule them” then and there for
 some other day. This is far better than giving a bad reading and resenting them for
 imposing on you. Now, when you are in the middle of a reading and you “just lose
 it,” your mind goes blank, or your client distracts you and you can’t get yourself back in
 the right frame of mind (don’t worry, it happens to everyone at some point), here’s what
 you do:
 Go do something else. Even if you can only take a few minutes to clear your head, get
 away from the reading. Take “a smoke break” (public service announcement: “smoking
 is bad”) or stretch, change the music you are listening to or grab your iPod, a CD, or
 even the radio and play a song you like to reset your mindset. If you can, take a short
 walk with your client around the block and talk to them in generalities about anything
 related to the issue but peripheral, not central. This will help restimulate you gradually
 so that you will be in the right state when you “get back to your cards” without dragging
 you so far from their issue that you lose your connection completely and have no
 “connection” to your cards when you return.
 Problem: Your client (paying or not) is abusive.
 Recommended solution to try: Refuse to read for them. No one deserves to be
 abused by idiots, most especially someone like you who is generous enough with your
 time to give someone something so personal and intimate as your impressions of their
 future or solutions to their problems. Tarot reading is intensely personal (never forget
 that part). You are looking into parts of people’s lives they won’t share with their friends,
 their doctors, husband or wife, mom and dad... Often you will find stuff they wish you
 did not see—and they will let you know, usually obliquely (by lying to you, or getting
 suddenly angry, and so on). If and when this does happen, you should be polite (it’s
 never a good idea to argue with “crazy” people) and simply fold up your cards and
 inform them that you have “lost your connection,” or that the vibe is all wrong. Telling
 them that you don’t feel comfortable reading for them will only encourage them to
validate their egos to anyone who will listen by making up stories about how horrible of
 a person you are. Don’t do that to yourself. Fortunately, the rude or abusive client is a
 rare creature. Most people who ask you for a reading appreciate your service.
Appendix B:
A Tarot F.A.Q.
 Okay, so there are a thousand questions students have about the Tarot when they are
 first starting out. We will not address them all here, but we will cover a few of the most
 popular ones. You can read through or skip over this part completely, or even make up
 your own answers that best suit your individual personality. All that matters is that
 when a client seeks your help in a reading that they are so impressed with
 your “amazing abilities” that they recommend their friends, their mother, their dog, and
 everyone else they know to you. Use what works for you. What follows is merely a guide
 to help you get started. Remember to practice with your cards a lot. That is more
 important than any other one thing you can do or know.
 There are so many Tarot decks!
 Which deck is right for me? Do they all mean the same thing?
 Various artists want to place their stamp on history or apply their vision to the Tarot.
 Others want to change various cards to suit their personal interpretations. Some decks
 retain accuracy with the Tarot, while others either change the meanings of the cards or
 are so ambiguous that they require you (the reader) to have your own set opinion firmly
 in place about the card and its meaning before you set about a reading. Over time you
 will probably have a few decks. In fact, you should “try out” as many as you comfortably
 can. The illustrations on the cards are important, but they have to work for you.
 The Tarot versus “other decks.” What’s the difference?
 Why are there so many divination systems? Are they Tarot decks too?
 Several styles of divination decks have gained popularity over recent years. The Tarot is
 simply the most popular, and the most enduring so far. Only the Tarot is “The Tarot,”
 but this does not make any other deck or divination system (astrology, dowsing, runes,
 entrails, scrying) any less valid (although entrails are positively messy, especially at
 dinner parties).
 The Tarot versus “regular playing cards.”
 What’s the difference? Can I read with either (or both at once)?
 The Tarot is like a “super deck” of “regular playing cards.” It has exactly the same cards
 as a normal deck but it also has 4 Pages (one per suit) and the 22 “major” Arcana cards
 as well. Once you know the meanings of the cards (or have a handy Tarot book in a
 pinch), you can read “regular playing cards” just like a Tarot deck, except that you won’t
 have any “major” Arcana cards to help out. Some readers actually prefer to read with
“regular playing cards.” Just remember that Wands = Clubs, Cups = Hearts, Swords =
 Spades, and Coins = Diamonds. It’s all pretty easy to remember, once you do it a few
 times. The hard part is trying to match the picture of the Tarot card to the “regular
 playing card” you are holding at the moment. As for doing simultaneous readings, we do
 recommend that you get some practice reading one spread at a time first. One reading at
 a time will keep you focused on pulling out the maximum amount of information from
 each spread.
 Various Tarot spreads:
 Which ones work? Which ones are better than others?
 We have included several spreads in this book that we would like you to practice and
 master. They will all serve you well. Your teacher may have additional spreads for you as
 well. In time, you may even design your own spreads. For now, please stick with the
 basics. These spreads will work well for you. All that matters right now is that you
 get reliable answers, and that you develop a comfortable and solid rapport with your
 deck. The best spread is the one that is most appropriate to the situation at hand: one
 that addresses the question being asked, and the way the question is phrased. Before
 throwing your cards, take a moment to consider what it is that your client wants to
 know. Find out what are they really asking.
 Too many times people will ask you for a reading (especially if it is free) and they will
 not know what they are asking about. They will say, “just tell me anything you see,” and
 will expect you to knowingly pick out some interesting and important detail of their life
 as it affects them now, or is going to affect them soon, and give them sagely advice on
 how to handle situations, often before they arise. This can be incredibly frustrating, and
 it is a waste of your talents and time. Unless your client has an urgent question they
 need answered in the next 30 seconds, it is far better to simply sit and talk for a few
 minutes with your client and develop a bit of a psychic bond through the shared
 emotions common in good conversation. This opens up your channels and helps your
 client’s subconscious rummage around the recesses of their mind for questions they
 “really want answers to.” This is a good time to shuffle your cards thoroughly while
 focusing your energy into your cards.
 You will be surprised at how easily a few minutes of chatting pleasantly will get just
 about anyone to suddenly vomit questions at you (quite mercilessly). Pay attention to
 what they are asking and how they phrase their questions. Will a “yes/no”
 spread be appropriate to start with? Perhaps a “one week forecast” or a “this or that”
 option spread will help you uncover answers quickly and easily. Spreads like the Celtic
 Cross are good “general spreads” that can be useful for a look at a situation where your
 client is completely confused or where you are dealing with limited amounts of
 information and you need to establish a set of facts before making any predictions. In
this case, you would use the base cards to verify the accuracy of the spread before
 committing to believing the resulting answer cards. The first few cards should accurately
 portray the situation at hand; if not, tear down the spread and reshuffle, focusing on a
 particular point of information. Then recast the spread with a clear mind. Preparation
 for casting is more important than which spread you cast. Think of your spread as a map
 to a distant location. The map will show you routes and obstacles. The map reveals the
 terrain along the path you will follow, but it will not tell you where to go. Knowing
 where you want to end up makes reading a map (any map) infinitely easier.
 How do I hold the cards? How do I shuffle? How do I cut?
 “Do I hold the cards or set them on the table and draw them from there?”
 Hold the cards in a manner that is comfortable for you. Tarot cards come in “standard
 sizes” and most of the decks are roughly the same size (being a bit too big for most
 people to be comfortable with at first). U.S. Games makes “tiny” decks and even jumbo
 decks, so try to get as many decks in your hands as possible early on and play with the
 feel of each of them. Also, remember that a new deck will always be slippery and
 frustrating to handle. As your cards get worn in over time they will be much easier to
 work with (they won’t slide around in your hands so much). If you feel comfortable
 holding them in one hand and drawing cards with the other, so be it. If you need to set
 them on the table because they keep “flying around” or you have small hands, that is a
 time-honored practice as well. There is no “right” or “wrong” method as long as you are
 not damaging your cards in the process of holding or shuffling them.
 As to shuffling your deck: This will be tricky at first, even if you play cards a lot. Most
 Tarot decks are much larger than a standard playing card deck (and there are 26 more
 cards as well), so shuffling will need a bit of personal experimentation. Some people use
 the “rifle shuffle”: set the deck on the table and “cut off” the top half, slide it next to the
 bottom half and bend the corners up and merge them together. This is the way
 professional dealers shuffle in Las Vegas. You could also shuffle them sideways (the
 standard card shuffle, only shuffle the sides together instead of the ends), or even a
 “normal” card shuffle if your hands are big enough. Some readers simply cut the deck
 into itself again and again (and again...) and alternate that with what was at one time
 called “the French cut” where you pull the middle third of the deck out between your
 thumb and one of your fingers and you “slap” it on top of the deck (repeatedly). Still
 others simply swirl the cards around in a pile gently but thoroughly while they are
 deeply considering the question at hand, and then carefully scoop the cards together.
 This reverses cards however, so it is not advised if you do not read cards “reversed.”
 Cutting your deck runs along the same lines. Cut as you like, but because shuffling and
 cutting are as much a part of the reading as any spread you may choose to cast, it is
 imperative that you shuffle thoroughly and completely, stopping only when you feel it
proper. Some readers shuffle a few times, others shuffle for a few minutes. If your cards
 aren’t cooperating with you, it is probably because you don’t shuffle enough or you cut
 too much (or not enough). This is where practice comes in.
 How do I draw cards from the deck? How do I turn the cards?
 Do I turn them sideways or flip them over vertically?
 This is one of the most important things to consider when developing your habits as a
 reader. It’s best to develop this by feel rather than analyzing it to death, but we want to
 address it here so that it doesn’t become an issue later. Assuming that your cards are
 facing lengthwise (either in your hands or on the table in front of you), your options are
 to “flip” a card (lengthwise), turn a card (sideways), or grab one at random from the
 middle of the deck. “Flipping” a card generally entails taking it off of the deck by its top
 edge and turning it lengthwise so that it reverses itself. If the top edge of the card was
 facing you when you were holding it, it is “right side up” when you lay it down on the
 table in front of you.
 This matters if you read reversed, as that means you would technically be holding the
 deck itself reversed and then reversing them when you flip them over. Whether the
 cards came up reversed or not from there would be a natural part of the reading. Or you
 can “turn” the card (pulling it from the side edge) and rotate it left or right (so that it is
 now face up). The end result is that one method reverses each card as you draw them,
 the other does not. Neither is preferable, but once you get in the habit of a certain style,
 stick with it at least throughout the reading. If you “flip” some cards and “turn” others
 in a single reading, you will alter the meaning of the spread.
 If you prefer to not read cards reversed, then you can ignore all of this and simply rotate
 the cards to face “up” no matter how they come up. Find a style of handling the cards
 you like and stay with that during each reading. This is what practice is for. Practice is
 your private time to play around with new ideas and sharpen your skills without other
 people judging you.
 Hey! Quit touching my Tarot! Do I really need to let other people put their grubby
 hands all over my Tarot cards? Should they shuffle my cards, or even cut them?
 Can I smack someone for touching my cards?
 Do I have to let other people touch my cards?
 Absolutely not! People have “germs” and residual psychic residue from all of the weird
 thoughts they have been thinking, and food crumbs... Some readers like other people to
 shuffle their deck, or even just “cut them three times” after the psychic has shuffled. This
 is perfectly acceptable, and don’t worry about our rants of germs and residual emotions.
 Practice with what works for you. A lot of it depends on how you feel about your client
and their question. Always remember: They are your cards, and you must have a bond
 with them. If you are into sharing, then great! But the decision of whether you want to
 psychically infuse your client’s question into your cards or have them hold your deck is
 entirely personal. If you ever read for a psychic hotline or do readings online, your
 clients will not be able to touch your cards, so you should be comfortable drawing the
 question from them and infusing it into your cards, even if you have to ask them for
 specific details to use as a foundation to start the reading. On an unrelated, but
 essential, side note: Never, ever, ever allow a client to bully you.
 Hey! My cat keeps sitting on my Tarot cards whenever I try to do a spread.
 Is it considered good luck if my cat sits on them?
 What is it with cats and Tarot cards? Ever since the pharaohs adopted them, cats seem
 to have developed this innate sense of knowing when you are concentrating on
 something (especially psychically) and they have to jump up on the table and walk all
 over whatever it is that you are working on. This is especially true of your Tarot spreads.
 It seems there has never been a more comfortable “cat couch” than the Celtic Cross
 spread. However, until your cat learns to speak English, you may have to brush up on
 your ailuromancy skills (divination by observing your cat’s movements—especially
 which cards its tail knocks off of the table).
 Should I sleep with my Tarot cards (on the first date)? Tarot under your pillow,
 wrapped in silk, in a lead box, in a wooden box, carrying it wherever you go.
 This goes back to what to keep your Tarot cards in. Some people like to sleep with their
 deck under their pillow. We recommend this habit as long as your deck doesn’t get lost
 behind the headboard, or create a lump in your pillow that keeps you awake at night. As
 to what to put it in: something protective.
 How often can I read my Tarot cards? How often should I read my Tarot cards?
 Can I read for myself?
 Let’s see... Every day, as often as you like, and yes, wait... no... er... yes!! Like everything
 else Tarot, whether you can (or should) read for yourself is debatable. We say “yes.” The
 problem is that you may not be objective enough to get any reliable results. See a bad
 spread? Simply toss it away! (Sounds like a late-night TV commercial, actually.) The
 good part about reading your own cards is that you get a lot of practice, and no one
 knows you like you do. You can ask about anything and not lie to yourself. Of course,
 the bad part about reading for yourself is the temptation to lie to yourself. That, and
 exaggerating what you see (good or bad), and driving yourself crazy in the end (not
 sanitarium crazy, but “extremely frustrated and stressed out” crazy). So, when you read
for yourself, stick to fun trivialities at first, and take everything with a grain of salt. If
 you are really worried about something, go to a professional, but don’t explain what “you
 think” the cards mean. This brings up an important point that is simply not covered
 enough in most Tarot literature. Your spread speaks to you. If we looked over your
 shoulder and told you what we thought your spread meant, we would be wrong. You
 threw your spread and the cards that came out did so in response to your understanding
 of them. Other people can observe your spreads and offer their opinions, but only you
 can say with all certainty exactly what each card means in your spread(s).
 What if I don’t want to read cards reversed?
 Then don’t. All Tarot decks are designed to give you thorough and complete answers
 whether you choose to use the additional information accessible through reversed cards
 or not. If you want to ignore any reversals and simply “turn the card around,” then
 please do and don’t let anyone ever make you feel like less of a reader for doing so. Tarot
 is highly personal: Your job is to develop your skills, not to listen to a bunch of “rule
 mongers” (including us!).
 Oh yeah? Well, what if my teacher disagrees with you?
 Do what your teacher says. Try it out for yourself and see whether that works for
 you. This is why you have a teacher: to help guide you along while you are developing
 your skills and practicing. You can always come back later (if you feel the need) and try
 it “our way” at any time; but if you have a live teacher in front of you who you can
 ask questions and get help from, definitely use that resource. That is an invaluable aid to
 your learning that you should take full advantage of whenever possible.
 Can I get a job reading Tarot?
 What should I expect?
 How much will I get p-a-i-d?
 The whole purpose of this book is to train and prepare you so that you could (if you
 want to at some point) become a professional reader. Yes, the world needs talented—and
 —skillful readers. The first thing we would like you to do is to perfect your skills
 reading (know your deck—whether or not you have memorized any of the various
 alleged “official” histories of the Tarot). We would like you to have a solid grasp of each
 card (without having to look at any book) and have given readings to at least 300 clients
 before you start officially charging any money (friends, family, parties, or your local
 coffeehouse), and at least 1,000 readings before you step foot into a metaphysical shop
 looking for a job. Your teacher may be a bit more lenient than we are.
A great place to get a lot of practice reading for a lot of people is on a psychic hotline.
 You should have read for a minimum of 200-300 clients before you call up one and ask
 for a job. But if you do “the psychic hotline thing,” you can expect to give several
 readings a day to people you will never see in person. This is extremely challenging and
 rather high pressure, as people want answers to their questions quickly so they can get
 off of the phone before their bill runs too high. This quickly becomes frustrating as you
 try to help them in the least amount of time as humanly possible. But “speed” and
 “accuracy” have a hard time coexisting peacefully when it comes to Tarot card readings;
 so if you are “working the lines,” you will need to develop thick skin very fast. Some of
 the joys you can expect from working a psychic hotline are the freedom to “work at
 home,” with all of its distractions, and the ability to set your own hours (some where no
 one calls, others where you can’t get a break to go pee).
 You will be your own boss, so when that phone rings (you will need two phone
 lines), you need to stop everything and “get to work” with a smile. As to clients: Expect
 lots of people wanting to know their “lucky lottery numbers.” I have hit the lottery
 (various amounts, some very small) over a dozen times for my clients, and not one of
 them offered me a bonus. A lot of clients will want to know about their love lives. Worst
 of all, most of your “phone clients” will expect you to have some kind of magical abilities
 to read minds (know what they are calling for without them telling you) and/or the
 ability to work some voodoo to get their boyfriend to do this or that, or their wife to have
 more sex with them. Once in a blue moon you will get a call straight out of “The Twilight
 Zone.”
 You have to understand that these are real people with real needs. They would not be
 calling you unless they really needed help that they are praying you can actually give
 them. This means you have to deeply care for their well-being and do the best you can
 for them (quickly). If all of this sounds like your idea of a good time, then you should
 look for the “customer service” numbers of the various psychic hotlines and call around
 offering your services—once you feel you have met the minimum requirements above.
 It’s not an easy job, but it will teach you more about human nature in six months than
 you would learn in five years in a boring retail job.
 When it comes to pay: 30 to 50 cents per minute is pretty average. Don’t get suckered
 into working for any less than that, as people will be paying $3-$5 per minute for your
 advice. Before you get all excited about the prospect of making $18 to $30 an hour
 “yapping on the phone in your jammies,” keep in mind that you will be lucky to average
 30 minutes per hour on average, and that this job will occasionally make you very
 depressed (people with real problems are calling you endlessly expecting you to work
 miracles for them). It makes a great parttime job if you have lots of time and are writing
 a book, or creating art, or any other endeavor you can set down for a moment to “take a
 call.”
As far as “psychic fairs,” “Tarot parties,” or working your local coffeehouse are
 concerned—if you have read for several hundred people already and have a small crowd
 of happy clients who have come back and told you how wonderful you are (which always
 feels nice), you might approach your local independent coffeehouse (if you hang out at
 one frequently) or ask around at your local metaphysical shops for psychic fair
 organizers and get your name on the list of psychics who “have a table” at the event.
 Usually there will be a registration fee or “table rent” (this goes to the organizer, who
 will probably have a booth to read and/or sell things as well). Expect to see astrologers,
 Tarot card readers, aura photographers, and palmists at any decent size psychic fair.
 Rune masters, phrenologists, tea readers, and dowsers will be extremely rare to see, so if
 you find one, be sure to corner them for valuable information. UFOs are huge at psychic
 fairs. People who attend psychic fairs just love our little extraterrestrial friends. So, if
 you have a cuddly little stuffed alien to plop on the side of your table, be sure to bring it
 along as a conversation starter.
 Readings at psychic fairs generally go anywhere from $10 to $30 on average. Smaller
 psychic fairs, especially in less densely populated areas will charge a bit less, and places
 like Sedona will fetch higher rates. Also, the more intensive and exotic the reading (“I
 draw your spirit animal hovering over you in all of the colors of your aura, in charcoal”),
 the more you can get away with. Visit a few psychic fairs in your area to see how they are
 laid out and be sure to make friends with everyone possible. Psychics who are on
 the psychic fair circuit know the psychic fair circuit. Get the business card of the psychic
 fair organizer and ask if they have other fairs, how much a table (for you) would be, and
 if they have any special needs that you might be able to fill (for example: astrology,
 Tarot, aura photography, or anything you may be skilled at—that they may need).
 At some point you may want to read at a local metaphysical shop or even open up your
 own “Readings by Zelda!” one-psychic shop like you see in various neighborhoods. You
 can do this. Just make sure that you have a lot of practice first. We recommend at
 least 500 clients (and at least 100 of those “paying clients” and another 50 or more have
 had the decency to buy you coffee for your trouble). Pop into your favorite metaphysical
 shop and say hello to the owner. Get on the standby list in case they “ever need a reader”
 (in six months or so...) and be sure to participate in their community events, and refer
 clients to their store if and when you can. In and of itself this won’t get you a job, but it is
 important to become known as a part of the community.
 What about parties?
 How do I politely say “no” when I am tired of giving readings?
 Okay, so you are at this rockin’ party and you are having a blast dishing out readings left
 and right, and you are just feeling the love and “the power!” flowing through you. Then
 suddenly it stops, or you get a headache, or someone wants a reading but they are so
filled with negative energy at this moment that you physically feel yourself soaking it in.
 Quick! What can you do?
 Take a break. Even if you are in the middle of a reading at the moment, get some space
 to clear your mind if you can’t breathe psychically. If you are with a client and you want
 to finish reading for them, you may want to simply go to the bathroom and wash your
 hands, taking those few moments to regain your sense of balance. Make it clear that you
 need a break by your posture, the arrangement of your “stuff” (whatever you have on
 hand), or even a little sign if you have one that says “back in a few minutes.” Anything
 you can physically do to give a clear, polite indication that you “have taxed your psychic
 muscles and just need some time to unwind and enjoy the party” or (if you are “working
 the party” on a psychic-for-hire job) you just need a few minutes to get some “punch”
 (fresh air, a smoke, some sushi, whatever...), just do it.
 Do it and don’t apologize. Take the time you need to re-center yourself and prepare
 for whatever comes next (including scooping your “stuff” up as quickly as possible and
 running for the door if you have to). No matter what excuse you need, never feel bad for
 walking away when you have had enough. Stay “sane” by keeping this fun. It will be
 “work” sometimes, and it will be challenging and even frustrating occasionally, but
 never push yourself so hard that you end up resenting your abilities, your clients, or
 your deck.
 How do I make my own Tarot deck? Will it work just as well?
 Will it be better? Do I have to study for a hundred years before I can make my
 own deck? Where do I get the blank cards?
 What if I just want to color in my personal deck?
 At some point in the future you may get the urge to design your own deck either
 professionally (you plan on selling it) or personally (you plan on using it). Your deck
 will work just as well as, if not better than, any deck you can buy once you know,
 understand, and can interpret the various layers of symbolism of your working decks
 (the ones you “work with” on a regular basis) in any situation you are faced with. This
 means a lot of readings for actual clients. Figure on several years of Tarot study and
 practice before you endeavor to do something like this. Otherwise, your personal deck
 will be somewhat bland and devoid of interpretational value when you need answers the
 most.
 Blank cards can be found at any office supply store. Look for blank “flash cards” in their
 education section. Of course, you can always go to an art store for art supplies. You may
 want to hand paint your personal deck using oils, watercolors, or even colored pens.
 Alternatively, the B.O.T.A. (and other mystery schools) provide their students with their
 own decks to color, and the Hello Kitty Tarot is another example of a pre-printed deck
available to color in if you like.
 What are these “mystery schools” you keep yapping about?
 Why are they so secretive? Are they a scam?
 Can’t I just go online and find all this stuff out for free?
 Mystery schools have been essential in the preservation of esoteric knowledge since the
 dawn of civilization. For every empire there seems to be some religious nut who wants to
 keep the general public ignorant, because uneducated people are much easier to scare
 into submission. Mystery schools guard knowledge that has been laboriously gathered
 over generations, and pass it carefully into the hands of those truth-seekers who prove
 over time their own commitment to preserve the sacred knowledge of philosophy and
 magic that actually works. This educational exclusivity is necessary to prevent the
 perversion of knowledge, but it is also the basis for much confusion and suspicion
 among those who stand outside the gates of the sanctuary.
 The process of creating “miracles” is far more complex than simply “attracting”
 something by wishing really, really hard for it. Magic is an ongoing process of personal
 enlightenment and commune with the divine. It is not some parlor trick one can learn
 and master in a few hours. You can study and see results fairly quickly, but to
 measurably raise the fundamental quality of your life takes time and personal
 commitment to a better life and a better self. You have at your disposal all sorts of tools
 and helpers, including the Tarot, astrology, psychic magnetism, meditation, and the
 forces inherent in nature. Herbs, water, wine, and the chemistry of Nature all want to
 help you along your path. Many thousands of people have invested their entire lives
 ferreting out these secrets over the generations before you. This information is closely
 guarded by those who have spent this lifetime understanding it. You can learn any of
 this sacred knowledge from us, at the rate you desire to make it a part of your life. You
 progress at your own pace, learning hand-in-hand with those who wish to share the
 beauty of this knowledge with you.
 The purpose of the great mystery schools is to organize the vast storehouse of
 information that has been collected over the past few thousand years. If you had to guess
 on your own whether to learn astrology before herbalism, or the Tarot versus
 numerology, the Kabbalah, Buddhism, or various meditation techniques, the whole of it
 would be overwhelming and even depressing at the sheer vastness of it all. Many roads
 lead to your destination. Knowledge is the central path and dogma is the handrail that
 keeps people balanced. Different schools will teach you different avenues based on their
 preferred view of the world. Eastern wisdom holds different views than Western
 thought, yet both worlds exist and create magnificent wonders. The point is to learn, and
 the school that is best for you is the one that inspires you to keep learning. When you
 find the right teacher, learning becomes effortless. It becomes a passion for knowledge
that chases away all distractions.
 We have listed several credible mystery schools in Appendix F. The B.O.T.A.,
 Rosicrucians, Masons, Golden Dawn, O.T.O., and other places will all teach you various
 esoteric secrets; some will include their version of the Tarot. If you are interested in
 this, see our list in Appendix F. In addition, we will have links to these and other esoteric
 schools at our website HouseOfWhite.net. Finally, at any time of your personal spiritual
 progress, should you wish information on our mystery academy, please visit us at there.
 We are always happy to help students along the path to their own mastery of magic.
Appendix C:
A brief history of the Tarot
 My metaphysical training began as a toddler, well before I was aware of exactly what it
 was that I was being taught. I didn’t learn Pythagorean formulae, or Byzantine chants,
 or even the difference between mugwort and a blade of grass. I was taught to recognize
 and organize patterns, just like we all were. I was taught how to attract what I wanted
 (point, ask, whimper, then scream, and finally cry if that did not work) and how to repel
 (reverse the preceding order) what I did not. Sciences like herbalism and astrology were
 years away, but manifestation 101 started with Napoleon Hill’s sagely advice (which I
 did not read until over a decade later), “Desire something more than life itself,” and
 “Whatever you can dream up, you can conjure up!” In both instances I have
 paraphrased, but the message remains intact.
 So it is with the Tarot. A scholarly knowledge of the Tarot can help you become a more
 knowledgeable reader, which in itself is extremely useful, but it will always remain a
 distant second to your ability to understand the Tarot, being your deck, the one you are
 reading with right now, not some deck that served someone 500 years ago, someone
 with a completely different view of the world. Five hundred years ago it was “common
 knowledge” that the world was flat. Everyone knew that! We also “knew” that people
 could not fly like birds, demons caused sickness, and no one had ever heard of “germs.”
 The very notion that the Earth revolved around the sun was “blasphemy unto God” and
 it was just that sort of talk that got people burned at the stake. Religion and government
 conspired to control the masses both in life and in death. Ahh, the best things in life
 never really change, do they? Five hundred years ago the common person had a good
 grasp on gravity, or at least the effects of it, even if not by name as per se. In short: We
 were right about a lot of things, and like today, we were completely off the mark on
 many we held sacrosanct and inviolate.
 Keep this in mind as you study the history of the Tarot. The Tarot has changed several
 times throughout the centuries to “fit” the beliefs of different times and different locales.
 Eastern Europe Tarot designers put their cards in a different order than Southern or
 Western European designers of the same era. Names and numbers of cards have been
 changed time and again, and undoubtedly caused no end of arguing over “the correct”
 order and titles. This is all fun to read and fascinating history, but what you must take
 away from any study of Tarot history is that the past is p-a-s-t. Whatever happened to
 bring you here to this point is secondary to the fact that you are here now and you are
 facing issues that need to be dealt with now. The fact that you had a sandwich last week
 is extremely important, as it kept you from starving then, but last week’s sandwich
 does not stop you from being hungry now. In the same way, your deck is more
 important than its origins. What your cards say to you in a reading today is far more
important than what some deck “originally meant” several centuries ago. So, please do
 have fun finding out where the cards originated, but remember that this is all just
 backstory. That being said, here’s what we know today:
 The Tarot originated in or around Milan between1420 and 1440 CE, give or take a few
 years, depending on whose history you subscribe to. By its very nature, it had to be
 designed by educated gentlemen with a fair amount of time on their hands, which ruled
 out the peasantry. That leaves the court or the church. Evidence points toward the court,
 as the church was not a place to design questionable games for idle hands. The notion of
 cards and card games was not new, having arrived from Islamic society, most likely
 through Spain as an entry point to Europe. Playing cards can be traced back to the late
 1370s in various European cities. Early cards had suits of polo sticks, cups, swords, and
 coins. These suits still appear in various Spanish and Italian playing cards.
 The Tarot, as a game, had the base cards of 1 through 10, dominated by Kings, Queens,
 and their offspring, but added a dimension of archetypes and forces of nature. The game
 included trumps and a separate fool card (think court jester: entertainer, adviser, wise
 man/fool), and in many ways it was similar to the modern card game Bridge. The Tarot
 survived local and international politics, wars, and passing fancy thanks in many ways to
 the era it was born in. The Renaissance was a time of learning, of questioning, exploring,
 and leisure. People needed new shiny things to keep their attention, and this crazy new
 game was an instant hit among the nobility, who had lots of time to party.
 Famous in Italy led to famous in France, Germany, and other countries throughout
 Europe. In each country subtle variations crept into the Tarot based largely on local
 beliefs and the whims of the artists who were consigned to interpret the images they
 were given to work from. Cards changed numbers and appearance dramatically, even
 names and colors, all to match their new homeland wherever they ended up. When
 especially skilled artists placed their stamp on the Tarot by designing a particularly
 popular deck, their deck became the de facto official deck of the land, the must have
 among the “haves.” No one cared about the “have nots,” so let’s not spoil our little elitist
 tea party worrying about them for the moment. Pictures on cards meant that you could
 instantly know the meanings of each card even if your literacy level was a bit sub-par, so
 anyone who was anyone could easily play, even with foreign decks.
 One of the most entrancing aspects of art is that it is ever so much more fun to draw and
 view fanciful scenes than still life (bowls of fruit for example). Legends of lions with
 wings and heads of birds, scaly dragons, and other imaginative creatures abound
 through all of time and every civilization. Gods and mythological beasts have always
 been favorites among artists (and the masses), and what better illustrations to adorn
 your cards with than vibrantly colored virtues and vices, heroes and celestial forces? The
 only entities more powerful than the rulers of the age were those of nature, of the divine,
and of ancient mysterious legends. These were the psychological counter-balance to the
 absolute command of all of life and death that the nobility exercised in the days of
 feudalism. A game of chance needed titanic forces to be controlled and dispatched to
 keep the attentions of people who had everything money and power could buy. These
 trumps were representational of forces normally outside of the control of the most
 powerful in society, but just like a modern video game, one could hold unbelievable
 power in their hands, and lie in wait for their enemies to learn the true meaning of pain.
 This is what makes a good game exciting, the suspense of whether you will be the victim
 or the dealer of wrath. It’s not about winning; it is about the excitement building to a
 frenzy, and then winning.
 As with any other societal invention (color TV, the calculator, CDs, cell phones, etc.),
 cards became available to more and more people as they went from exclusive hand
painted decks to mass-produced decks. The commoners of society were allowed to
 experience the rush of adrenaline card games brought, and the Tarot was a part of that
 wave of “trickle-down culture.” The symbolism of the Tarot trumps were the basis for
 much speculation of meaning, and in time people sought out to lay a sense of order onto
 the whole of it, rearranging the order of the cards, changing the images to suit their
 personal views of the world, and inventing their own stories about how the Tarot came
 to be. Occultists gravitated to the Tarot for obvious reasons. Tarot cards were clean,
 organized into tidy suits and hierarchies, and extremely portable. Symbolism was
 applied to meaning, and that gave a solid structure for a system of prognostication.
 The word Tarocchi first appears around 1530 in Italy, and eventually becomes Tarot in
 French. It is argued that this is a brand name, created to distinguish the Tarot deck from
 other decks that one could play the game of trumps with. Much like a Big Mac™ is a
 hamburger, but a hamburger is not a Big Mac™, the Tarot is a deck of cards, but not all
 decks are the Tarot. Ask ten different experts what the word Tarocchi means and you
 will get a variety of answers. What matters is that since no one knows with certainty, it is
 an empty label. It can mean whatever you like it to; but all in all, at this time in history it
 is now a pretty word whose origin is lost in time much like the runes.
 In 1909, Arthur Waite (A.E. Waite) asked Pamela Coleman Smith to illustrate a Tarot
 deck to his specifications. He was an important member of the Golden Dawn at the time
 and wanted a “public deck” that could be used by people outside of the mystery schools
 and secret societies, but remained true to the symbolism he held sacred. This deck
 became the basis for most modern Tarot decks, even the infamous Thoth deck later
 designed by Aleister Crowley as “an improvement” on the Waite deck. This is what
 happens when master occultists (with vast resources) disagree on something as pivotal
 as the Tarot. Thanks to this vehement disagreement we have two distinct schools of
 thought on the Tarot that serve to better illustrate the most important aspect of the
 Tarot: It means what you want it to, so long as your meaning is consistent,
encompassing of the relevant facts at hand, and repeatable. If your system of reading
 works for you on a regular basis, then your system of reading is more “correct” than
 anything you will ever read in a book. Card meanings have been handed down to us
 based upon what Tarot students have experimented with and found to work for them.
 Therefore, they are not easily dismissed, but they are more guides than absolute facts.
 In the twentieth century, the Tarot exploded with popularity, with artists from all walks
 of life doodling out their own versions, some professionally published, others not; but all
 were valid expressions of meaning from the point of view of their creators. The Golden
 Dawn and the O.T.O. have had massive influence over modern Tarot decks, and even
 though new decks often diverge from the straight and narrow path of Tarot symbolism,
 they owe their core principles to the Tarot, and most often to these two institutions of
 higher (or lower) learning. If you would like to spend hours and days studying various
 theories of the history of the Tarot, we have listed some highly informative texts below.
 Recommended reading:
 The Encyclopedia of Tarot, Vol. I & II, by Stuart Kaplan
 The Tarot: History, Mystery, and Lore, by Cythnia Giles
 The Game of Tarot, by Michael Dummett
 Recommended websites: www.waitesmith.org
Appendix D:
How to be a hit at parties
 Tarot cards were simply made for social gatherings. Not only can you play fun games
 with them, but it seems that once your cards come out, everyone (except for a few fuddy
duddies) will want you to answer a few questions for them, especially if you look like
 you know what you are doing. You don’t have to be witty and funny, making jokes about
 everything you see to be the life of the party, nor do you have to be “Miss Serious.” All
 you have to do is take your readings seriously enough to answer any questions you have
 agreed to cast a spread on, but not so serious that you bring the energy of the party
 down. People go to parties to have fun, but people usually want a reading when they
 have a problem. This is one of life’s crazy little factoids that can really drag a party
 down fast; so if you do whip out your deck at a party or one of your friends drags you off
 to the side to “find out what so and so is thinking, doing, or where they are...” it’s your
 job to keep the tone upbeat and (at least reasonably) fun and refuse to answer anything
 too deep or serious (“Let’s get to that tomorrow”).
 The most important thing to remember about reading at parties is simply to have fun
 and not be too obvious or pushy about reading. When you think about it, it comes down
 to simply not making senseless mistakes (or “party fouls”) rather than doing anything
 “mystical” or special. If someone asks you for a reading or it comes up in conversation,
 look for a reasonably quiet spot and have at it; but make sure that you have a clean
 surface area that is not going to suddenly have drinks placed on it. If the lighting, noise
 level, or amount of space is not to your liking, it is far better to save the cards for another
 occasion than it is to try to change the atmosphere or complain. Also, while these may
 seem a bit obvious, please don’t make these common mistakes: Do not share any
 personal information about any of your clients. Your clients are anyone you read for,
 whether they paid you or not, bought you coffee, or stiffed you. Think of yourself like a
 priest(ess) at a confessional. Whatever is said stays between you and your client.
 In fact, if you can get in the habit of conveniently forgetting their problems and any
 advice you gave them about their problems, you will find your life blissfully easy (even if
 they get their feelings hurt later that you don’t remember all of their personal drama). If
 you talk about someone about who did this or that to you, or had this or that problem,
 you are just inviting people to think that you will share their secrets with the world. In
 some cases it is okay to speak in general terms (“a lot of my clients think...”) or in
 reference to one long past who is impossible to identify, but even so be careful about
 this. It’s best to forget old questions, problems, and advice if you can.
 Next:
 No making jokes about your client! When you are reading for your one of your friends, it
is extremely tempting to point out something in the cards and make fun of it. If you
 think they will appreciate your joke even more than you will (for being so clever
 naturally), then proceed at your own risk, but other than that be very careful about what
 you joke about in a reading and how you phrase it. Once again, while reading should be
 fun, it is too easy to cross a line and strike a nerve in your client if you get too chummy;
 so please just be careful and avoid silly (and avoidable) mistakes. Okay, so assuming
 that you do all of that well, the readings should take care of themselves. Start reading for
 one person and others will stop by and look over your shoulder, ask questions, or give
 you subtle hints that they would like a (free) reading too. As long as you are not
 dragging people away from the rest of the fun, your host should be okay with you
 sharing some of your insight, and if you see a line forming (or people ask “to be next”),
 try to keep your readings light and short (no longer than five or ten minutes each).
 Don’t try to turn people into paying clients at a party, but it is okay to give them
 your card and offer to “meet them over coffee” sometime if you want.
Appendix E:
Fun Party Games
 If you have more than one deck (and you really should, once you start reading on a semi
regular basis), make sure that you have a “basic deck” that you reserve for parties and
 other occasions where you don’t mind if people want to paw through them. Sometimes
 you can even find a used deck at an independent bookstore, swap meet, or garage sale.
 These are great for party games as you don’t have to worry about “keeping the psychic
 influences” affecting them “clear and pure.”
 Tarot cards are perfect for magic tricks if you know any, they make solitaire much more
 fun than plain old “regular” cards, and you can even play variations of other “regular”
 card games with them, like “Go fish!” In this variation of “Go fish!” the rules change only
 slightly. It works best for three or four players (although you might be able to include up
 to five or six quick and witty players in a pinch, at least for a short game). You start
 with seven cards each (use the whole deck) and you describe a simple situation, and the
 other player has to use one or two cards to illustrate your scenario. If they can, they get
 one to three points (at your discretion) based on how apropos their cards are. (How
 close are they?) If they can’t, they have to draw a card and try again. If they still can’t,
 then the next person gets to go. The trick to making this game fun is to keep the whole
 thing fast and light by keeping your scenarios easy and simple. The idea is not to get rid
 of your cards, but rather to get the most points by being able to use your cards to
 correctly illustrate the most situations.
 Here’s an example: It’s your friend’s turn. They say, “You get a flat tire on the way to
 work.” Nice and easy, not too complicated (although if they said, “You get a flat tire on
 the way to work and it’s raining and you are an accountant,” it’s in the rules that you
 can dump your Pepsi all over them). So, you have eight cards at the moment: five of
 them are completely useless for this question, but you have the Knight of Swords, The
 Chariot, and The Tower. All of these are “helpful” but none seem to jump out at you, so
 you take the opportunity to draw a card and you get the Ace of Swords. That’s it! You
 announce your brilliance and show The Chariot and proclaim that you were happily
 driving on your way to work, and that you were going to be early (since you are such a
 considerate and happy worker—one who deserves a raise by the way) when all of a
 sudden “Pow!” you get a flat! (and you slap the Ace of Swords REVERSED on top of The
 Chariot like a giant spike). Then stand up and take a bow, and when you get three points
 you do your little victory dance and annoy everyone (who wishes they were as clever as
 you).
 Another variation of a popular “regular” card game is Spades, but with Tarot cards. Let’s
 call it “Swords.” Take the “major” Arcana out of the deck for now and put them away
 safely and you play just like you would play Spades, but the suit of Swords is now the
trump, and the evil queen (the “bitch”) is now the Queen of Swords. Hmmm... didn’t see
 that one coming, did you? You can also play a variation of Crazy 8’s (it’s like UNOTM
 but with a “regular” deck of cards). In fact, you can even play poker, but leave The Fool
 in for that added chaos factor.
 You can also play “The never-ending story” or other specific Tarot games you know as
 long as the other players are quick-thinking, creative, or are at least reasonably familiar
 with the Tarot.
Appendix F:
“Secret Societies” and Mystery Schools You May Want to Join
 “Mystery schools” are an ancient tradition. Modern mystery schools vary in quality and
 age (like most things, it seems) and while we cannot list them all (some of them are so
 secret that they don’t even want other people to know they exist), here are a few of the
 more popular ones that are said to be credible. We cannot guarantee any school (other
 than our own) only because we have no direct control over the quality. Rest assured,
 however, that any of the schools or organizations below have been around for a length of
 time to reach “maturity” and have a wealth of information that is worth investigating. As
 to our school, write to us for details (email address is at the beginning of this book). In
 the meantime, here are some of our favorites you may want to look into. We have set
 aside vast amounts of space at our website AdvancedTarotSecrets. com to provide
 you with voluminous amounts of additional information on each of the listings
 below, including how to apply for membership (when they are accepting new
 members).
 The Golden Dawn or The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn®
 Camelot. A long time ago brave, heroic, compassionate knights gathered at a “round”
 table that was designed so that (at least in theory) “no one could sit closer to the king
 (and have ‘his ear’), and that every knight would have an equal voice.” Then one of them
 had to sleep with the queen and the whole thing went to pot. Well, that’s the version we
 heard. The point is that Camelot was a refuge of free thought, great ideals, and an icon of
 purity and the betterment of humanity. Thus was the Golden Dawn. Crowley came from
 the Dawn, as did Waite, Mathers, Westcott (co-founder), Yeats, and the list just keeps
 going! In “the day” this was the place to be. The Golden Dawn has had its ups and downs
 and currently there are a few organizations that claim the title. We are not “taking sides”
 in that mess! But, the tradition and knowledge still continues. If you would like to be a
 member of what once was truly a magnificent society of secrecy and study (And maybe it
 will be once again if you join now that you know so much about the Tarot! In fact, you
 may in fact go on to become a great adept and resurrect the great schools of the past!),
 you might want to check out www.golden-dawn.com. Of course, do know that there are
 other organizations that also claim authority, so please do diligent research to make sure
 that you choose the group that is right for you.
 The following addendum is directly from the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, so
 please take special note of it as well:
 “The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, founded in 1888, created an eclectic
 magical system combining various streams of magic together Hermetic
Qabalah, astrology, and tarot. The symbolism of the Tarot of the Golden
 Dawn reflects this synthesis as there are both Qabalistic and astrological
 attributions to be found in the cards of both the major and minor arcanas. The
 influence of the Golden Dawn and its successor, the Alpha et Omega, on the
 tarot has been ENORMOUS. The two most popular tarot decks today, the
 Rider-Waite and the Crowley decks derive their symbolism directly from the
 Golden Dawn, although Waite further pictorially embellishes the symbolism
 of the minor arcana. Yet a third modern tarot deck directly engendered by the
 Golden Dawn and its offshoots was that created by former Alpha et Omega
 member, Paul Foster Case, who later founded the Builders of the Adytum.”
 O.T.O. or Ordo Templi Orientis
 This is “Uncle Al’s” group. Crowley didn’t found the O.T.O., but he is by far one of its
 most famous members (and rightfully so). This is serious stuff here: High magic, heavy
 usage of symbolism, and serious personal commitment and study are part and
 parcel to membership. They accept “newbies” but they prefer that you actually have a
 deep desire to learn and practice rather than “a passing or casual interest” in
 philosophical/ magical/religious studies. Some of the best minds have passed through
 these doors, but you would probably never know it. They are into the whole “privacy
 thing,” so if you ever wanted to be a part of a spooky secret organization where your
 membership in said organization is not public knowledge (kinda like the Illuminati), this
 is it. If you like the Thoth deck, you owe it to yourself to look into membership. You can
 find their website at www.oto-usa.org
 AMORC or Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis
 Okay, so who doesn’t like the Rosicrucians? The AMORC rocks! They have great
 parties, they share their knowledge freely, and they have that cool Egyptian temple in
 San Jose. The Rosie’s (don’t call them that) are sincerely interested in helping you
 understand “the whole metaphysical thing” from philosophy to developing your
 personal psychic abilities. They are not a religion, so their members come from all walks
 of life; and, as you can guess, these guys have been around for a long, long time. They
 are pretty pragmatic about you joining. They ask that you look around, read anything
 you like (that they have to offer “to the public”), and make your choice(s) at your leisure.
 Look: There are several “Rosicrucian” groups, and we can’t speak for them (good or ill),
 but this is one you certainly want to be a part of if you are at all serious about enhancing
 your abilities and perceptions. Find them (or their members) in North America, or all
 over the world. Find them online at www.rosicrucian.org
 B.O.T.A. (Builders of the Adytum)
Now this is a modern “mystery school.” The word “Adytum” means inner shrine or
 “Holy of Holies” (although we personally prefer the term sanctum sanctorum).
 Nonetheless, if you want to learn more about the esoteric side of the Tarot and are into
 the whole “hermetic Qabalah thing” (some people are, and some people are into other
 “things,” and it’s all good), then you really need to check these guys out. They are also
 non-religious, so you can be a Buddhist and study their Qabalistic Tarot teachings, or
 just about any other religion as long as your particular religion does not specifically
 prohibit studying hermetic teachings. Their Tarot is a bit different from the Golden
 Dawn (Waite), or the Rider (also Waite interestingly enough ...) but similar. But they
 are so much more than a few Tarot lessons. Every month they send their members
 meta-philo-psychological lessons of ever-increasing intensity, but all firmly rooted in the
 Qabalah. They also have gatherings on a regular basis and are truly nice people.
 Remember that they are of the Western mystery school tradition, so they are vehemently
 mono-theistic versus the classical Eleusian (which we are forbidden to tell you about—
 sorry!), so know this before you jump in thinking that our fav goddesses will be showing
 up. Still, very much worth investigating if it fits your personal view of the world. Check
 them out at their website. It has more than enough information to help you see if they
 are for you. (“We like ‘em!”) www.bota.org
 The Masons: The International Masonic Research Society, Scottish Rite, Shriners,
 Eastern Star, DeMolay International, Job’s Daughter’s, International Order of Rainbow
 for Girls and the Tall Cedars of Lebanon (“If you need to ask...”)
 Masons are tres cool. If you believe the gossip, they built the pyramids, they are friends
 of the aliens, have secret connections to the Knights Templar, and they run the world;
 and they do all of these things every morning before breakfast. Even if they
 don’t accomplish half of that before lunch, Masons are highly respected
 members of society and their “known membership” consists of some of the greatest
 minds of recent history. Ben Franklin was a “Grand Master” Mason (how cool is that?);
 John Hancock (the guy who signed his name really big on the Declaration of
 Independence, aka “his own death warrant”); George Washington was a Mason
 (unfortunately so was that Judas Benedict Arnold). So, “known” Masons run the gamut
 among society. If you choose to “join the club,” you will find yourself in good company.
 By technical definition, the official word of modern Masonry is that they are not a
 “Secret Society,” but that doesn’t mean you won’t learn a few things along the way.
 Either way, you can find one of their primary (public) websites at www.freemasonry.org
 The Philosophical Research Society (The PRS):
 This is Manley P. Hall’s group. Nice people. Headquartered in Silverlake, CA (a few
 minutes east of Hollywood, just south of Griffith Park). They host a wickedly-cool library
of rare and hard-to-find esoteric works you can sit down and enjoy in a quiet setting.
 Parking is almost non-existent, so plan ahead for that. They were founded in 1934 “for
 the purpose of providing thoughtful persons rare access to the depth and breadth of the
 world’s wisdom literature.” This place is 100 percent dogma free. It’s about philosophy,
 not mind control or religious dominance. These are very cool people. If you come, be
 nice. You come here to study and absorb the quiet esoteric wisdom of the place, not to
 brag about what you know. The compound itself is tiny by most standards, and easily
 missed, but their university is a serious graduate-level distance learning university,
 nationally accredited by the DETC (Distance Education and Training Council). You can
 obtain your Masters Degree in Consciousness Studies or Transformational Psychology if
 you like, which is not too shabby. Imagine relaxing on the beach in Bali while studying
 deep mind sciences from an institution thought to be one of the leading centers of
 philosophical thought in the modern world. So, what are you waiting for? Here’s their
 contact info. Make sure you told them we sent you. Website: www.prs.org
 Physical location:
 PHILOSOPHICAL RESEARCH SOCIETY
 3910 Los Feliz Blvd
 Los Angeles, CA 90027
 phone (323) 663-2167
 fax (323) 663-9443
 email info@prs.org
 The Illuminati:
 Unfortunately the toll-free number we use to reach our friends at the Illuminati
 headquarters seems to be disconnected as of the publication date of this book. We
 apologize that we are not able to find a working number. Of course, we are sworn to
 secrecy as to the exact location of their headquarters, and their website keeps redirecting
 us to several of the largest global corporation “front” pages. So we can only assume that
 they are in one of their “reorganization phases” again. Be sure to stop in at our website
 occasionally and see if we have been able to publicly update any contact info. Sorry for
 the inconvenience. We hope to have this fixed soon. In the meantime, please keep
 consuming!
Appendix G:
Highly Recommended Reading
 There has to be a million books on the Tarot by now. Some are obviously better than
 others. Here are a few you may like. We have chosen them because the information in all
 of them is easy to assimilate, but they all come from a different place and use different
 ways of sharing their knowledge. You may like them all, but more than likely one or two
 will match your style of learning while the others will not be a comfortable fit. Still, they
 are all worth reading:
 Easy Tarot Guide by Marcia Masino
 Paperback: 200 pages (about 8.5 x 5 inches)
 Publisher: Astro Communications Services (January 1, 1988)
 ISBN-10: 0917086597 or ISBN-13: 978-0917086595
 If you only read one book on the Tarot (other than this masterpiece), this must be it. It
 is straightforward and easy to understand. Unlike our endless drivel, Marcia packs all of
 her instruction into 200 pages (and the book is only half the size, too!). Trust us when
 we say that you will love this book, new, used, or even from the library.
 The Smart Girl’s Guide to Tarot by Emmi Fredericks
 Paperback: 240 pages (about 8 x 5.5 inches)
 Publisher: St. Martin’s Griffin
 ISBN-10: 0312323549 or ISBN-13: 978-0312323547
 This is a fun book. The style is sassy, raw, and very “girly” (sorry guys). Emmi certainly
 has her own take on things and she breezily includes various “real life” examples to spice
 up her instruction. Her Tarot illustrations are unique and “modern” to say the least, but
 that simply adds to the fun of it all. Not your typical stuffy book (if only we could be so
 carefree!). Check it out at your local bookstore. We promise it will glue itself to your
 hand all the way to the sales counter. Highly recommended.
 Learn the Ancient Art of Tarot—The Easy Way! The 2-Hour Tarot Tutor: The Fast,
 Revolutionary Method for Learning to Read Tarot Cards in Two Hours... Without
 Memorizing Meaning!
 by Wilma Carroll
 Paperback: 304 pages (about 8 x 5 inches) Publisher: Berkley Trade
 ISBN-10: 0425196186 or ISBN-13: 978-0425196182
 Wow! Is that a title or what? We don’t know about mastering the Tarot in just “two
 hours,” but we love Wilma! She has a fun style that is entertaining and educational, and
 she answers a lot of basic questions and has some interesting spreads. Give her book a
few weeks to get through (versus trying to cram all 304 pages into two hours unless you
 are one of those “speed readers”). It will be worth the time and mind-boggling amounts
 of information to process. Like all experts (including those listed above), we may not all
 agree on every single detail of the Tarot (does anyone, really?), but she knows her
 stuff and her book is fun to read, even if it takes you longer than two hours. (It took us
 96! Eep!)
Glossary
Akashic Records
 The really, really, really short version: The universal library. Everything that ever HAS
 happened, WILL happen, and is happening right now, is stored there. Some say it is the
 source of the four primary elements, others’ say it is the substrata of the collective
 unconscious (which is a pretty big thing in itself). The (cosmic) library is always open if
 you need to access information, and information is often shared simultaneously with
 several people, even if they do not consciously ask for it. Think of it like a leaky roof in
 the library—several people can get wet at once.
 Air (See Elements) Aspect/aspected/aspecting cards
 Every card in a spread is connected in some way to other cards in that same spread, but
 not necessarily directly. Sometimes a card will lean on another for clarification, or lead
 to, or point at, some other card. When one card shapes or defines another, the card
 DOING the shaping or defining (of the other card) is the aspecting card (or “clarifying
 card” if it is used to give expanded meaning to the target card). The card being affected
 is the aspected card.
 Astrological signs, houses, planets
 Astrology and the Tarot don’t match up as well as some “experts” would like us to
 believe. However, the four suits of the “minor” Arcana easily lend themselves to the
 elements of fire, earth, air, and water, which are all present in the science of astrology. It
 wasn’t planned out this way—it just sort of evolved, and as the whole notion caught on
 people started adding more and more “meaning” to help develop a system of
 interpretation. It all works as long as you don’t try to force too much meaning into
 different systems of symbolism that simply don’t entirely match up (square peg, round
 hole). However, in this course we have taken the astrological correspondence further
 than anyone else ever has in the interpretation of the Tarot by assigning correlating
 astrological energy to each “minor” Arcana card to help clarify its energy. For reasons
 revealed in our “Advanced Tarot Secrets” course, we have not assigned any astrological
 correspondences to the “major” Arcana, although it is possible to find various labels
 assigned to them online or in any number of books should you like. You can choose to
 assign astrological values to cards or ignore them altogether as you choose and still give
 good readings. Also, feel free to use our suggested astrological meanings for each card,
 or simply ignore them and use what works for you.
 Burning Times, The
Dark time in history when the Catholic Church decided that tens of thousands of people
 should be executed, often by burning them at the stake after severe torture and cutting
 out their tongues. Usually referring to the specific period of religious domination
 occurring about 1480 to 1700 CE and involved religious massacres, genocide, and wars
 over whose god had the bigger staff.
 Card Position
 Card position (or simply position, or even “slot”) simply means a pre-ordained location
 with a set meaning for a card to be placed. The “spot” (or “slot”) where a random card
 will be placed in a spread is like an astrological house. That meaning never changes.
 The card that is placed there clarifies what is happening, will happen, has happened, or
 what it all means. For example: a card position in a spread could represent “the Past”
 and the King of Wands plops down in that “spot.” This shows “a man from the past,”
 whereas if the 8 of Coins
 was placed there it could indicate “an old job you had.” In spreads, card positions are
 empty placeholders or “reserved seats” awaiting the cards that will be placed in them.
 The purpose is to systemize readings so that when a card shows up, you know where
 its energy fits in to your client’s question. One more time: the The Devil flies out of
 the deck while you are shuffling. What does it mean? Where does it fit? Who can say? So
 you put it back in the deck (in this example) and when you cast the spread, it shows up
 in the “job” slot (or “card position” meaning “job”). Now it makes sense: you hate your
 job. Who doesn’t?
 Cardinal/Cardinal energy
 Astrological reference: The three primary qualities of energy, using the astrological
 system of categorization, are: Cardinal (beginning, pioneering, instigating, combative,
 etc.), Fixed (maintaining, stubborn, immovable, reliable, structurally sound, solid,
 unchanging, etc.), and Mutable (liquid, flexible, ever-changing, chaotic, dissolving,
 releasing, transitioning, etc.). Cardinal energy is restless, volatile, and struggles for
 freedom and change. Its main purpose is to enact change, to lead without question
 (and tolerate even less). Cardinal and Fixed energies are akin to sword and shield, and
 they could battle forever, but Mutable energy seeps in and dissolves all resistance
 like a solvent. It rots the shield and rusts the blade, so none are truly superior. (See
 also Qualities)
 Chaos Theory
 An attempt to measure and classify absolute chaos into any form of relative order.
Similarly, an attempt to explain that in every controlled environment there is at least
 one tiny spark of chaos that can start a chain reaction of events that skews the results of
 your experiment. Simply stated: you can attempt to control everything around you and
 still the fickle fingers of destiny will slip you a random element every once in a while,
 just for fun (usually their fun, not yours). Surely the gods laugh at us all.
 Clarification cards (also Aspecting cards)
 Clarification cards are cards that you draw specifically to help decipher another card
 (see opening up a card and also Exercise Seven). The process is simple really: ask your
 deck (or your guides, your god(s), etc.) to “explain” any particular card and draw one,
 two, or three cards (decide how many before you draw though). Aspecting cards are
 cards that affect another card and are found in the spread, not “drawn afterwards.”
 They can clarify, change, or shape the meaning of any other card. Any card can aspect
 any other card, and aspecting cards can even affect each other.
 Completion card
 Any card that by design indicates an end of one situation and the beginning of
 something else. Main completion cards are: Death, Judgement, and The World. Other
 cards that are usually, but not necessarily, completion cards: 10 of Swords, The
 Tower, and the 10 of Cups. These interpretations are subject to YOUR understanding at
 the time of the reading.
 Crusades, The
 Proof that state-organized/sanctioned religion and peace are natural enemies. Holy
 wars undertaken with papal sanction. Any of the military expeditions undertaken by
 European Christians in the eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth centuries against Muslims,
 pagans, Jews, various Orthodox Christians, Mongols, and political enemies of the popes.
 (See also Burning Times)
 Damocles
 Damocles was a weak-willed coward of a man who constantly complained about his lot
 in life. He was one of mythology’s great sycophants who had his head handed to him
 (philosophically speaking) after he had pushed his luck by overspeaking. (See also
 Sword of Damocles)
 Delphi
Coolest place on Earth. One of the most powerful ancient psychic vortexes on record.
 Home of the omphalos stone (sacred “navel” stone that focused rising gasses like a
 funnel) and thought to be the center of the known universe. Location of the Oracle
 before later Apollonian desecration and domination. Center of the Elysian
 Mysteries, Vestal priestesses, and divinatory legend. “Before Apollo, there was Gaea.” —
 from the Temple of Persephone.
 Demeter
 Mother of Persephone (with help from Zeus), goddess of many secrets. Publicly: grain
 and harvest goddess (theorized by some that she took humanity from hunter-gatherers
 to agriculturally based societies, and thus founded modern civilization), central figure
 of the Elysian Mysteries. It is arguable that she is older than Zeus and the
 Olympians, but we will save that for another time. Quite possibly the most powerful and
 influential goddess—EVER!! Not wise to upset this woman.
 Dowsing
 (aka divining, water witching) Practice of locating hidden or lost objects with a
 pendulum or forked branch. In modern times metal rods have been employed. The most
 common use of dowsing has always been the search for fresh (drinkable) water, either
 underground, or by use of maps. Other objects commonly searched for using this
 method are buried metals, gemstones, and even oil. Easy to learn, difficult to
 master. Like the Tarot, the skill (and magic) is in the practitioner, not the tool,
 although as in carpentry and masonry the tool selected and the quality of the tool will
 greatly affect the outcome. Dowsing has fallen out of favor with the public but remains
 practiced by rational people with triple-digit IQs the world over. Efficacy is
 questionable, but the amazing results obtained are often otherwise inexplicable. It
 seems entirely possible to scientifically dismiss this as superstitious hoodoo once and for
 all, until some dowser (once again) performs the impossible.
 Dominant Card
 The dominant, or primary card in any reading is the card that is central to the meaning
 of the spread. This card is, in turn, aspected by other cards, which color or shape it,
 clarifying its meaning. Not all spreads have dominant cards, so don’t drive yourself crazy
 looking for them. However, when they do appear, they are usually easy to spot with a
 little practice. “Major” Arcana cards can be dominated by “minor” Arcana cards if the
 “minor” Arcana card is more specific to your querent or the reading. Don’t fall into the
 trap of seeing “major” Arcana cards as more powerful or more important than “minor”
ones.
 Earth (See Elements)
 Elements
 Metaphysically and esoterically the four “classic elements” are Fire, Earth, Air, and
 Water; being what the ancients thought everything was basically made of. Now science
 is up around 120 elements. Be that as it may, the (European) four classic elements
 correspond to four “sets of qualities” that govern existential awareness. Fire (as a “thing”
 you can see, and touch) is hot. It burns, it dances, it consumes. Fire (as a metaphysical
 “element”) is vibrant, competitive, ambitious, energetic, and is a metaphor for those
 energies in magic,
 philosophy, or personality characteristics. Earth by contrast would be people or energy
 that is solid, slow, reliable, patient, stable, and so on. Air is worse than fire: it is
 changeable, fickle, ethereal, invisible, harsh, gentle, swift, and unpredictable. Water is
 similarly changeable but the psychological focus is on liquidity, so it is variable, gooey,
 clingy, and leaves stains. In the Tarot, these elements relate directly to each suit of the
 “minor” Arcana to help establish meaning quickly and easily. It gives each suit a theme,
 which makes interpretation much easier, especially among students.
 Esoteric
 “Knowledge known to the few,” versus exoteric knowledge (“public knowledge”).
 Secrets; but almost always meaning valuable mystic knowledge dealing with psychic
 power and the laws of nature that can be tapped. Any real esoteric knowledge is
 jealously guarded by organizations or by church, and by state (depending on which
 group possesses that specific “esoterica”). Simply put: Any secret (valuable) body of
 knowledge that is shared over time with students as they progress in their ability to
 process it intellectually, use it wisely, and effect changes in reality through it.
 Expansion cards
 Expansion cards are added to your spread after it is completely cast, and you are in the
 process of reading. Your spread will have a set number of slots to fill, and so anything
 added to it after the fact is an expansion or clarification card. Expansion cards are very
 useful for asking, “... and then?” questions, and ferreting out additional information
 without having to break the structure of the reading by tearing down the spread. When
 you tear down a spread, you risk breaking the psychic resonance you have built up and
might have to start clean, from scratch. Expansion cards save you from that hassle.
 Fire (See Elements)
 Fixed/Fixed energy
 Astrological reference: The three primary qualities of energy, using the astrological
 system of categorization, are: Cardinal (beginning, pioneering, instigating, combative,
 etc.), Fixed (maintaining, stubborn, immovable, reliable, structurally sound, solid,
 unchanging, etc.), and Mutable (liquid, flexible, ever-changing, chaotic, dissolving,
 releasing, transitioning, etc.). Fixed energy is favorable for establishing permanence,
 but not very good for actually getting much done. Think “management,” or
 “maintenance,” but not “creation.” Fixed energy resists change with an iron will, which
 is why mutable energy is called for (eventually). Cardinal and Fixed energies are akin to
 sword and shield, and they could battle forever, but Mutable energy seeps in and
 dissolves all resistance like a solvent. It rots the shield and rusts the blade, so none
 are truly superior. (See also Qualities)
 Fixed nature
 Possessing the qualities of Fixed energy. (See Fixed Energy, above)
 Hermetic
 The modern meaning of the world means to seal securely, as in an “airtight” seal. But
 the variant meaning that you will see when dealing with esoteric knowledge, such as the
 Tarot, refers to the teachings of one Hermes Trismegistus, the father of numerology and
 an extremely smart mathematician. Modern mystery schools, much Western paganism,
 and many branches of occult science are heavily steeped in the theories of this particular
 genius. This line of magical philosophy is less Gaea centered (less faerie) and more
 masculine, or logic-centered, and tends to value organization and categorization (labels)
 as a method of understanding (mysteries), over the more ancient and bonding processes
 of intuitive reception and spiritual assimilation. It is also more individual and
 isolationist by nature.
 Inquisition, The
 Primarily, The Spanish Inquisition, although there were others. King Ferdinand of Spain
 sought to “conquer the world for God” through muscular application of Catholicism
 (“Convert or die,” but often only after much sadistic physical torture and psychological
abuse). It was particularly notorious for being a way to repress Jews, Muslims, and the
 occasional pagan. Part of the central process was to remove power from the Pope and
 place it conveniently in the hands of the super-rich (Spanish monarchy), where they
 could gleefully abuse poor people for fun and profit. (Some things never change.) It was
 especially useful for enslaving the native populations of North and South America.
 Historically, it lasted from the early 1400s until the early 1800s (CE).
 Insinuating card
 An aspecting card that carries an overt negative connotation towards the target card (the
 card it aspects or insinuates ill-fate towards). (See also aspecting cards)
 Journal (See Tarot Journal)
 Kabbalah and Kabbalistic (Also: Cabala, Kabbala, Kabala, Kabalah, Qabalah...)
 Hermetic magical study based in large part on the tenets of a sect of Hebraic mysticism.
 Applied to the Tarot after the Tarot caught on in popularity, or conversely it could be
 said that the Tarot was added to it. In any case it is really, really deep stuff that requires
 a dedication to study along the lines of monotheistic power adaptation. Not well-suited
 for polytheistic magical systems. If you are interested in studying the magical aspects of
 the Qabalah, see any of the mystery schools or organizations that focus on
 that particular path. We have listed a few in the appendices.
 Kings
 (in the Tarot): The four Kings of the “minor” Arcana are representational of traditional
 male authority figures (or just old men) possessing various personality characteristics,
 or engaged in certain occupations, responsibilities, or meaning to the querent or the
 question. They embody the “values” of each suit personified by any man (usually above
 the age of 30). They can also represent men astrologically, each relating to the
 elemental qualities of their suit. Clarification cards may help as well.
 Knights
 (in the Tarot): Traditionally Knights indicate “young men” (13-30ish), although they
 can also indicate females if you would like to split the genders as follows: Swords
 and Wands to indicate males, Cups and Coins to indicate females. Actually you could
 assign the suits any way you like, as long as you were consistent and the decision was
 psychologically firmly entrenched enough to be reliable for prognosticational usage. The
problem is that the Tarot never included “princesses” as a counterpart to Knights
 (although Crowley did so in a fashion). Knights indicate testosterone primarily, which
 (combined with the image of a horse) translates into action: things happening NOW!
 This can also easily indicate travel, movement, change, quests, adventure, or a complete
 lack thereof when reversed.
 Law of Parsimony
 Succinctly stated: “Entities should not be multiplied unnecessarily.” Stated in a way
 the rest of us can understand it: “If you need one hammer, don’t use two.” (or)
 “Don’t go complicatin’ matters unnecessarily.” The law was an admonishment
 (vehement reminder pretty much) to researchers to not discount the obvious, and often
 simplest possible solution. The process of research and analysis invites complexity.
 “What if” is the second-favorite question of science (the first being “How?”). This law
 was designed to draw a line in the sand at some point, to create a safety valve to avoid
 endless speculation on possible contributors to effect. If you have a simple cause and
 effect situation, “I drop the ball, and it falls to the ground,” it is sorely tempting to ask
 whether it will bounce, or if the speed of a cross wind will affect its flight time (number
 of seconds it takes to reach the ground), whether the shape of the ball affects its impact
 velocity, and on and on, ad nauseum. The beauty of this law in divination is that it
 cuts through superstition and needless questioning of variables. “See what is there,” not
 what might be “if...”
 Laws of Attraction and Repulsion
 Elements of a greater natural law (Magnetism). A subset of the natural law of
 Magnetism is that of psychic magnetism (e.g., attraction and repulsion). Currently this
 is all theory, and not officially recognized by modern scientific thought, although it is
 extremely popular with accepted public knowledge (“exoterica”). The “Law of
 Attraction,” being only one half of the law is widely popular, while its conjoined-twin
 sister law (repulsion) is ignored, which is why most people who try to effect “psychic
 attraction” have difficulty obtaining reliable and desired results. This is Mystery School
 101 stuff, so you will have to either take the Advanced Tarot Secrets course or enroll in
 any reputable mystery school, but simply stated: You must have filters. If you
 successfully attract without conditions and qualifications, you will be swamped with
 resources and entities that overwhelm your defenses and you will be paralyzed with
 surrounding obstacles.
 Imagine a pretty woman who is wearing a very revealing dress near a construction site at
 lunch time. She will “attract” attention, but not necessarily the type or amount of
 attention she secretly desires. She will be overwhelmed with offers and verbal abuse
from too many sources to ignore or contain psychologically and her state will
 be disrupted. Never “attract” without placing boundaries first. For a simple version of
 “how to do this,” see How to Get ANY MAN to do ANYTHING You Want!, specifically
 pages 7-16. The entire book is a crash-course in getting results through training your
 psychic muscles written in an exoteric style of hiding secrets in plain sight.
 Lotus Sutra
 Final teaching of the Buddha (“Sid”) before entering Nirvana. Not revealed until 500
 years after his exit from Terra. Said to be his ultimate teaching by some. Others ignore it
 (at their peril). Notable fact: Only appearance of a powerful female Buddha, and often
 written out in misogynistic translations.
 “major” Arcana
 These are the 22 cards most metaphysical über-scholars like to concern themselves with.
 In most decks they have a staged feel, as if the people are posing (“Okay everyone, smile
 for the camera!”). Even the active scenes (The Tower, Judgement) are less meaningful
 than they are iconic. These cards are said to be the “secrets of magic, the path to [the
 Judeao-Christian] ‘God,’ and portals to wisdom.” Whether they are or not, they are fun
 to look at and make great jewelry pendants. The main problem with these cards in
 divinatory usage (which is what this book is all about, after all) is that they tend to be
 rather vague, and need clarification cards to specify who and what they are, or mean.
 Malleus Maleficarum (“The Hammer Against Witches”)
 Undeniably the most evil book ever written. Far worse than the “Satanic Bible,” which
 was a collection of essays by Anton LaVey, and somewhat a parody of the Christian
 Bible. This book was a handbook for the processes of interrogating, convicting, and
 disposing of alleged witches. Its purpose was to prove that witches existed, that they
 were almost always women (naturally), and to make it impossible to defend
 against the accusation of being a witch. Once you were accused, you were guaranteed
 a very short life of imprisonment and torture by fanatical priests (who were probably
 sexually repressed by their very religion). Currently published in two volumes, and made
 available on Amazon.com and other retailers.
 Manifold and Mystic Law of Cause and Effect (See Aphrodite’s Book of Secrets)
 Simply put: The basic law of cause and effect is easy to understand and stands at the
 base of all measurable physical experience. Expanding this concept from the physical to
the ethereal we start to see how unseen forces affect seemingly “purely physical” events.
 This dual existence sandwiches chaos theory, where unseen forces affect the “best-laid
 plans of mice and men.” When working with psychic matters it is best to have a general
 grasp of the rudimentary laws of nature as they affect your psychic exercises and
 workings. We have detailed this information out, in easy-to-understand terms in our
 book, Aphrodite’s Book of Secrets, and our Advanced Tarot Secrets course.
 “minor” Arcana
 These are the “peasants” of the Tarot. They count for well more than two-thirds of the
 Tarot, but they are overshadowed by the “major” Arcana because these cards represent
 the daily activities and experiences of life. Therefore, they are “indicators” (or action,
 intent, personality, etc.) rather than simple “concepts” that need to be assigned to some
 tangible actuality. Every card is special. Don’t let anyone ever convince you that any
 one card is “by nature” more important than another.
 Mutable/Mutable energy
 Astrological reference: The three primary qualities of energy, using the astrological
 system of categorization, are: Cardinal (beginning, pioneering, instigating, combative,
 etc.), Fixed (maintaining, stubborn, immovable, reliable, structurally sound, solid,
 unchanging, etc.), and Mutable (liquid, flexible, ever-changing, chaotic, dissolving,
 releasing, transitioning, etc.). Mutable energy is ethereal and elastic, using its unique
 ability to adapt to overcome all adversities. Mutable energy is easily harnessed but
 difficult to hold. Its ability to wear down or envelop its nemesis (Cardinal and/or Fixed
 energies) makes it a wily foe psychically. Of the three main qualities it is the least
 understood, as it is the least observable. Cardinal and Fixed energies are akin to sword
 and shield, and they could battle forever, but Mutable energy seeps in and dissolves
 all resistance like a solvent. It rots the shield and rusts the blade, so none are truly
 superior. (See also Qualities)
 Opening up a card
 This is the process of using three cards to help “clarify” the meaning, intent, or impact of
 another (usually one of those pesky “major” Arcana cards). This is done outside of,
 or on top of the spread, instead of tearing the spread down and casting a whole new
 one, although it could also indicate taking the card in question and casting a
 spread about it. (See also Clarification cards and Exercise Seven)
 Pages
(in the Tarot): Catch-all cards. Can indicate: births, babies, children or young people,
 messages, invitations, news, minor events, study and/or education, miscellaneous
 school fees and tuitions. Also: character qualities in a person (or in a child). The most
 basic meaning is “one in training,” with the emphasis on youth and learning a particular
 skill (as revealed by the suit of the Page).
 Persephone
 Daughter of Demeter (and Zeus).
 Too important a goddess to summarize here. Enroll in a mystery school.
 Position (See Card Position)
 Practice Deck (See Study Deck)
 Qabalah
 Qabalah is an esoteric and mystical tradition for certain Western magical societies such
 as the Golden Dawn, the O.T.O., and mystical societies such as the B.O.T.A., and the
 Rosicrucians. Qabalah is a “salad bar” style of blending of many of humanity’s oldest
 attempts at understanding (and controlling) the world around us. It was added to the
 Tarot after centuries of evolution as a card game.
 Qualities
 (cardinal, fixed, or mutable) From “the mother of all sciences,” astrology: If there are
 four elements in astrology, there are three qualities. Each element shows up three times
 in the wheel of the year (being “all 12 signs”). As there are four elements, and each
 element has to appear three times (4 x 3=12 obviously) then each element expresses
 itself; Cardinal once, Fixed once, and Mutable once. Using the element of fire as an
 example: the astrological sign of Aries is cardinal fire. That means it is the most
 explosive and commanding part of the (element of) fire. Leo is fixed, meaning it is more
 stable than Aries, but not nearly as powerful in “impact value.” Sagittarius is highly
 mutable, making it squiggly, or adaptable to the surrounding terrain. Obviously this
 means it is nowhere near as forceful as Aries, nor as bright as Leo, but it can “burn
 anywhere.”
 Look at it this way: If Aries were a bomb, Leo would be a bonfire (large, bright, not
very explosive, kinda stays in one place, but still very, very hot), and Sagittarius would
 be a 4th of July fireworks show. It is “up in the clouds” (like most Sag’s are...) and all
 sparkly and multi-colored, but you can’t light your cigarette off of it (smoking is “bad,”
 so don’t do it).
 In the same sense, Taurus is Fixed Earth, Virgo is Mutable Earth, Capricorn is
 extremely Cardinal Earth. Gemini is Mutable Air, Libra is Cardinal Air, and
 Aquarius is Fixed Air. Lastly, Cancer (the sign, not the disease) is Cardinal Water,
 Scorpio won’t tell you what it is, and Pisces is “squishy” Mutable Water (which by
 process of deduction makes Scorpio “fixed” Water, but we didn’t tell you).
 Queens
 (in the Tarot): The four Queens of the Tarot have the responsibility of representing
 almost any woman you (or your client) meet, making these some of the most important
 cards in the Tarot (keeping in mind that no one Tarot card is “more important” than
 another). Traditionally these cards can represent “any woman over 30,” but really they
 often represent any girl over the age of around 17-21 (depending on maturity level,
 aspecting cards, nature of the question, and so on...). Queens can also embody the
 “values” of each suit personified by any woman (usually above the age of 30). They can
 also represent women astrologically, each relating to the elemental qualities of their
 suit.
 Querent
 One who nags you for a reading (also “client,” or “friend who buys you a coffee to thank
 you for taking the time out of your day to give them a reading”).
 Reading
 The act of divining the future or answering a question for yourself or a querent (“one
 who asks”) or even looking into the distant past, or spying on your girlfriend while she is
 in Ibiza.
 Reversal/Reversed cards
 Any card that appears in a spread that is facing the exact opposite direction of what you
 would normally term “up.” If you always lay the card so the client can see them
 “pointing away from them,” then this would be any card that pointed “at them” (180
 degrees rotated). If you read cards so they are “upright” when you look at them ,
 then naturally any card that is rotated 180 degrees (upside down, but not “flipped over,”
showing you its backside) is reversed. This could also be a card that comes into the
 spread face down (usually by falling out of the deck), but those cards are almost always
 referred to as “face down.” We make this distinction, as some readers will read “face
 down” cards as reversals, or as “hidden, of lesser importance, or against the grain of the
 traditional meaning,” and it is better that you know this up front. Always remember
 logic supercedes superstition. If a card falls from the deck, face down, away from
 the table, onto your cat, it may just be an accident. Especially if the card makes no sense.
 The gods do have a sense of humor.
 Rote memorization
 The act of learning by repetition of dogma or established fact. “This is what I say and,
 therefore, it is what you will believe and teach others.” Useful for learning things like the
 alphabet. Not so much for mastering magic, philosophy, or the Tarot.
 Significator/Significator card
 A significator is a card that “significates” or represents a person, place, or thing (just like
 a noun). It is “what the question is about.” A significator card could represent your
 client, or if you like, it could represent the person they are asking about, or the situation
 they are seeking advice from you on. This is entirely your decision, and it should be
 made to help you focus your psychic energies on a particular point of enquiry.
 To choose a significator card, think of the primary focus of the person, place, or
 thing you are asking about and grab the Tarot card from your deck you feel most closely
 illustrates, or captures, the energies involved. Place that card, face up, in the center of
 the surface you are going to place your spread on. That card now becomes “a part of the
 tablecloth.” You will place your spread on top of that card. While you are shuffling
 your deck, look at that card and mentally see the person, place, or thing you are asking
 about. Send your mental energies (images, emotions, word associations, etc.) of that
 person, place, or thing into that card. Once you feel that card resonates with your target,
 then start the process of asking your question, shuffling until you feel the need to stop
 and cut or place the cards. For example: If you want the Queen of Coins to represent
 your client in her question about a job, you place the Queen of Coins down before you
 cast the spread.
 Alternately, you can use the significator as the first card in any spread you cast—if the
 first card normally represents the person, place, or thing you are asking about (as in the
 Celtic Cross spread). If you keep the significator card separate from the reading, the next
 card you place (the “first card” of your reading) will reveal extra information about the
 current state of the person, place, or thing—this will be ancillary information to help you
find the exact spot from which you must progress.
 Spread
 Simply stated, a spread is simply a “map” or an organizational chart of the cards created
 for reading. A spread is valid only if it works for you. Try out various spreads, but
 make sure that you are properly shuffling and focusing on the question(s) at hand before
 you throw the cards. It helps (but is not 100% necessary) that you know ahead of time
 what each card position in a spread will mean before you cast it. The more you know a
 spread, the better it will work for you; but you can always try out new spreads and still
 get reliable results, as long as you focus, shuffle, and interpret properly.
 Things you can do to a spread: The following are terms (you can use these or ignore
 them as you like, or even make up your own). We have included them here so that you
 will not be caught off guard by anyone’s fancy elitist “Tarot lingo.” To put the cards on
 the table in order: Cast a spread, throw a spread, throw the cards, build a spread
 (you get the idea).
 To pick up all of the cards and put them into the deck:Collapse the spread, tear down
 the spread, pull down the cards, clear the table, clear the slate and start fresh (again,
 you get the idea).
 Study Deck
 Your Tarot deck when used for study purposes, specifically a deck with easy to decipher
 visual stimulus. We use the term study deck to specifically refer to the deck you use to
 practice your exercises when you have removed the “major” Arcana. By starting your
 learning process with the “minor” Arcana, you learn the processes involved in
 readings through the exercises provided, without the distraction of the “major” Arcana.
 When you ADD the “major” Arcana, it becomes your “practice deck.” Then you do all of
 the exercises again, but this time WITH the the “major” Arcana cards included.
 Suits
 The four “tribes,” or “houses,” of the “minor” Arcana. Usually a variation of Staves,
 Batons or Wands, Coins or Pentacles, Cups or Chalices (Goblets, etc.), and Swords. Also:
 Roses, Bells, Acorns, Leaves, Hearts, and of course Clubs, Spades, and Diamonds. These
 represent general characteristics in a theme, or aspects of the totality of existence (think:
 “the four winds,” where they are all winds, but they blow in different directions).
 Sword of Damocles
Damocles was whining one day (as he always did) about “how great it was to be
 Dionysius” (his liege) and how “if only...” and finally Dionysius got tired of his court
idiot’s constant ranting and offered him to be “king for a day” (in essence). Of course,
 Damocles jumped at it and sat in Dionysius’s chair and feasted at his table and drank his
 wine in great volume until, during the course of his gluttony, he caught sight of a stout
 sword hanging (pointy-end down) above his head. But the sword was hanging by a
 single hair. Damocles suddenly lost all interest in “being king of anything” like the
 brown-nosing coward he was. Dionysius explained to the fool that this is what his life
 was like every day: that aside from all outward appearances of power and wealth, there
 was always a blade awaiting his back, some malcontent or Judas to “end his reign.” Thus
 the term “The Sword of Damocles” has come to mean anything that is potentially
 imminent and “could happen.” (Although it also describes the peril powerful rulers live
 under constantly.)
 Tarot Journal
 Advocated by some; self-serving, narcissistic waste of (perfectly healthy) trees that never
 gets read anyway to others. Our take on it: any scribble pad, notebook, or fancy pile of
 papers in an elegant binding where you keep track of your most significant spreads and
 your own thoughts on the Tarot over the years. The problem is that if you are serious
 enough of a student to take notes, you will have so many notes that you will spend all
 of your time writing instead of reading.
 Water (See Elements)
 Witching Stick (See Dowsing)
 Yods
 Tenth letter of many Semitic alphabets, including Phoenician, Aramaic, Hebrew,
 Syriac, and Arabic. The image (of the letter) appears in various Tarot cards by various
 artists who probably seek to indicate an extra level of mysticism (you have to ask the
 artist or enroll in their mystery school to be certain). The esoteric interpretation for
 usage in the Tarot specifically is far too complex to delve into here so you can simply
 ignore them, enroll in your local hermetic mystery school to learn more, or see them as
 pretty leaves or flamelettes if you like. We do not discount the addition of yods to Tarot
 symbology, as it has its place. But we strongly recommend that you do not place too
 much value in their meaning until you have properly studied the implications of the
 traditional, historical, religious, and esoteric meaning of these symbols, lest you end up
dispensing bad advice.